---
title: Day 35.5 - Proof of life 🌷
date: 2022-01-10
description: I'm still alive, and very much kicking!
tags: musings
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Hello everyone! 

Yes, yes — I'm aware the streak has been broken, and big time: covid has long been gone, but something about being under lockdown, plus the Christmas season and moving cities again — I'm back in Lisbon for the time being! — all of this **at once** seems to have thrown me completely off my rhythm; and not only the programming groove, but the existencial one too! Slowly, but surely, I hope to be back on track, and figured this could be a great opportunity to assess what has happened with a little over a third of this experiment.

## The good stuff!

It's probably easier to start with *what went well*. I'm hoping to account for both milestones achieved and general feeling of change, and took note of what seem like the three major highlights of this experience so far.

### Icecast is up and running — really well, too! — and bzzzzzzz is now very responsive! 🛰

This was a major point for me, and it is probably linked to a great motivation behind my coding: I wanted to achieve a sense of technological independence with regard to my radio dabblings. At this point, the Icecast server is fully functional, missing only a tweak or two before perfection, and the website is looking much better too. The whole setup is working under HTTPS, and the front-end is an inch away from being 100% responsive and adaptive to all screens.

It feels great to maintain such a light side-project, which doesn't entail much of complex code and can work as a distraction on heavier days. CSS is *actually kinda fun* when one does figure it out! 

### My Javascript and front-end chops have increased *immensely* 🎨

It started with bzzzzzzz; and then this blog; and then a front-end project that I am professionally, let's say, in charge; and the consequence is that I am now much, much more comfortable working on front-end projects and improvising some Javascript. I'm definitely still not an expert — there are still many technologies and concepts I don't know of, *let alone master* — but I can make stuff work, and that is good enough — at least for now!

### It helped me keep track of things! And I feel my English has improved, too. ✍️

Having some sort of log of any work done can really be a godsend. I learned how to build and run Docker containers, and dedicated a whole blog post to that; if, in the future, there is any need to consult any of that information, it would be quite easy to get at it. It is also a good exercise to practice some English every day, and try my best to be clear, entertaining, and *maybe funny* — by this order!

I'm still quite from having a fully functional second-brain 🧠 as many other more organized, more competent programmers do. I think that will come with time. For now, I can only add that it probably helps a little with motivation: by logging every single day (which not always happens...), one can really grasp how a good amount of baby steps can really add up to some big progress.

## The not so good stuff 🙃

### All things considered, my focus hasn't progressed much... 🐣

There are actually many things that I feel have some contribution to the phenomenom. One thing I dearly miss from the summer days is how *early the sun rises*: I would naturally wake up with the light, usually around 6 or 7, and have a headstart on a day's work. There's some evidence on how we tend to sleep more during the winter, and that probably affects productivity too. It's just something I am yet to accept, and can take a toll on my motivation.

In any case, I'm not happy with what the bigger picture reveals: despite my meditation and regular yoga and exercise, my focus *is still very frail*. There are a lot of bad habits that I have yet to eliminate (consulting social media, listening to very active music, etc.), and this has to be done sooner than later.

### A worrying tendence to drop unappealing projects — and to take on many responsibilities at once 😵‍💫

I suppose this has been a constant throughout my life, but I really have a hard time ploughing through unpleasant or (seemingly) pointless endeavours. Luckily, my short programming stint has not had much of these two, but there are a few stones that I'm still burdening to this day (remember that raycaster project? Still unfinished 🤕). This is a very cumbersome feeling, as it directly ties to what my experience was throughout most of my formative years at university — I felt mathematics was a dead-end for me, but also that there surely was something wrong with my having no pleasure out of it. 

This took a wild turn in the last couple of years, and I am now very happy to drop these responsibilities from my life. If there is anything I don't find interesting, *that's fine* — the world is full of other cool stuff to muse at, and there's probably some other people who enjoy and partake on that other project anyway.

The flip side of the coin can be tricky, too: if one is amused by *everything*, then there's a hard time saying no to any opportunity; consequentely, there is a flood of *interesting* projects to tackle all at once, testing my time-keeping capabilities and organisational skills.

## ...and what's up for the medium term?

There's, of course, many things I would ideally tackle on the next thirty days, but maybe this is the time to tackle the **big responsibilities** in my working life right now. This means *no side-projects* in the near future, except maybe for getting the comments to work properly. All the other ones, in particular the bzzzzzzz website, are now running at cruising speeds!

All the other things - a thorough refactor of the bzzzzzzz back-end code, and possibly creating a full front-end interface for introduction of content, and diving deep into a functional programming language - can wait. Let's see how it goes from here onwards. 
