---
title: Day 36 - Fixing the comments API 🔨
date: 2022-01-17
description: getting Django to behave properly...
tags: Django, Docker
---

# {{ $page.title }}

This really must be fixed, because you sure are eager to get to talk with me too.  

## What is the current status? 🤔

It has been a while since I last took on any Django, so one must reassess the situation. The live container seems devoid of the routing issue that would point to both the front-end and the API, which is nice (I have no clue *how* did it solve itself, though) —  but every request is still met with a pesky 500. 

Even running the local version will incur in some undesirable problems: there's at least a 400 error on what looks like a valid route. In fact, **every** endpoint is showing 400. Is this project doomed beyond repair? This was actually quite easy to sort out: I have a ``IS_ON_DEV`` boolean that wasn't detecting this particular computer as a valid development. Easy hurdle. Plus, I had it deployed without even passing Django through a `gunicorn` instance. That is not best practice, but is fixed now.

## Finding the error! 🧶

The query consistently fails with the following error:

``` python
django.db.utils.OperationalError: no such table: api_comment
```

Now, this took me the greater part of my day to fix; as of now, I'm not even quite sure how I did it. Since there seemed to be no contact with the `api_comment` table, I thought about directly inspecting the tables, but needed the `pysqlite3` dependency to make it work. The server is live and working, but it really is very barebones with limited functionality — I haven't even properly documented the API calls! So maybe that is the next step.

That, and fixing CORS; and implent a proper backup strategy. Also, the `admin` page is not properly routing; it directs itself to the main endpoint, which is the bzzz website. That's a no-no.
