---
title: Day 37 - Fixing CORS... 📫
date: 2022-01-18
description: ...again? I could have sworn to have dealt with this already.
tags: Django, CORS
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Yesterday was a somewhat productive day - if not necessarily with big advancements on the project, it surely helped to have a big overview of the (admittedly small) codebase. There was a very naive problem, for example: if one did a GET request for a given day and there were none to retrieve, the API would return a small written message (`no comments!`), along with a status code. This seems fine, but I used a 204. According to the Mozilla documentation, 

``
The HTTP 204 No Content success status response code indicates that a request has succeeded, but that the client doesn't need to navigate away from its current page. This might be used, for example, when implementing "save and continue editing" functionality for a wiki site.
``

So the requests were being made - and with a positive response (a status code in the 200's) - but the browser did not show any particular message; this was a very naive problem to have, and highlights how much care there should be with using proper status codes.

## Current state of affairs 💒

As it is, the back-end server is waiting for both GET and POST requests; the front-end, however, cannot properly pull any of these requests. Here's a log for a POST request, and very similar to a GET one too.

::: danger Error log
``Cross-Origin Request Blocked: The Same Origin Policy disallows reading the remote resource at https://bzzzzzzz.buzz/api/post_comment. (Reason: CORS header ‘Access-Control-Allow-Origin’ missing). Status code: 200. ``
:::

Now, let me be very forward: *I have no idea what I'm doing*. To the best of my knowledge this was already handled, on a previous day - but it seems like I didn't properly documen that adventure. At this point, the GET request works when visiting the URL directly (`https://bzzzzzzz.buzz/api/get_comments?day=37`), but not when doing the request from the Alex Makes Codes website (AMC).

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

