---
title: Day 38 - Fixing the routing and static content issues 💫
date: 2022-01-19
description: This is almost done! ⛄️
tags: Django, nginx
---

# {{ $page.title }}

The nginx routing issue was very easy to fix. I'm not sure whether this is best practice, but keeping up with the idea of taking advantage of nginx's capabilities, I just added a new rule that would route every `/admin/` endpoint to `/api/admin/`. This seems to work quite nicely!

At this point, my nginx config file is as follows (except for certbot configs, which I ommited):

``` nginx
http {
  server {
    listen 80;
    server_name https://bzzzzzzz.buzz;

    location ^~ / {
      proxy_pass http://bzzz:5000;
    }

    location ^~ /api/ {
      add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' 'https://www.alexmakes.codes' always;
      proxy_pass http://back-end:8000/;
    }

    location ^~ /admin/ {
      proxy_pass http://back-end:8000/admin/;
    }
}
```

## Getting CSS to work! 🎨

With this current configuration, the server is now 100% functional, although the Django app is still missing its CSS. While not a big problem for an API, the Admin page is quite ugly without it, so might as well try and fix this.

Django is traditionally known for having some rough edges for deployment noobies. If one does run it in debug mode, all the static files are served automatically; in a production environment, however, one is responsible for their provision.

To get things started, the `python manage.py collectstatic` command will collect all the static resources (css, images, JS, etc.) into a directory. Then, anytime a static resource is required, nginx routes (and serves) the content at that particular directory. In my particular case, everytime the browser looks for something under `/static/admin/`, it should point to the `back-end` container, at its `/static/admin/` path - but I'm not quite sure how to go at this.

After doing a fair bit of searching, most container architectures have nginx and whatever service running on the same container; but that is not the case here. So far, I haven't found a way to have the nginx container fetch static files from another container - or whatever the best practice would be in this situation - but stumbled across [a very helpful Reddit post](https://old.reddit.com/r/docker/comments/kqnjqs/nginx_container_serving_static_content_different/gk098gx/?context=3).

::: tip (from /u/Ihr_Todeswunsch)
It's been two weeks, and in hindsight, the solution was stupid simple.

I just created an anonymous volume on the php-fpm image like so in my docker-compose file:

```
app:
    [...]
    volumes:
        - /var/www/html/public
```

And then on the webserver, I just used "volumes_from":

```
webserver:
    volumes_from:
         - app
```

Now anything that's inside "/var/www/html/public/" in the PHP image is now available in the nginx image.
:::

## For tomorrow:

The nginx container bridge must be investigated, there must be taken steps for the database to be properly backed up, and I'd very much like to receive email notifications for every pending comment!

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
