---
title: Day 40 - Fixing the CSS, with a slight detour 🛣
date: 2022-01-21
description: Sometimes you got to ensure it just works!
tags: Django, nginx, Haskell
---

# {{ $page.title }}

I've been trying many solutions to this recent problem of sharing data across containers, but with no luck so far. This, then, led me to being a little more pragmatic: having copied the static content from the back-end, I'll just serve it right away with nginx - that particular data sharing issue can be solved some other time. Thank you, future Alexandre! 😘

## Serving static content with nginx 🎨

I am definitely not an authority on nginx, but here's some of my findings. After having placed the static content on the root of the project directory, it was fairly straightforward to have it passed to the Docker container. From then on, one just needs ensuring proper routing to the content.

Using the `alias` directive, every request for `/static/admin/` is being redirected to a path local to nginx, and content is now being properly served. I had one issue, however: the files were being found and served, but the CSS wasn't applied. turns out I had to set the MIME types for the content. All is working now!

## And just as it was fixed...

...another friend of mine came up with a solution for the data sharing issue (thank you very much, drop!)! 🙃

Now, don't get me wrong: I love my friends, and I love programming too. But it really is frustrating to rely so much on their experience rather than the usefulness of the documentation. Maybe the problem all along was that I never look *into the right parts* of the documentation. 

This solves the issue:

``` nginx
version: "3.9"

services:
  bzzz:
    build: bzzz_internet
    expose:
      - 5000
    volumes:
      - ./bzzz_internet:/app
  back-end:
    build: back-end
    environment:
      - EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=AESCALAdosdebatespoliticos
    expose:
      - 8000
    volumes:
      - ./back-end:/app
  nginx:
    hostname: nginx
    image: nginx
    ports:
      - 80:80
      - 443:443
    volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
      - /etc/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt
      - ./back-end/static:/static
```

Notice how the service `nginx` can reference the service `back-end`!

## Geting started with Haskell 🧮

A regular follower of the blog would know that picking up a functional language is something I've been keen on for a while. Shortly after my falling out with Math, I picked up some programming courses: I passed C, and left halfway in Haskell - not necessarily due to difficulty, but mostly out of a busy college life, I suppose. 

As much as I do enjoy Python (and its web frameworks, and all the joy it has provided me 🥰), I feel the need to expand my skillset. The choice boils down to either Haskell or Elixir, and I settled for the first mostly due to it being a little more *pure* (apparently, Elixir does some concessions which ease their users in the funcional paradigm - I'd rather not have that while learning), and also because I'd probably have no use case for a predominantly concurrent language as of now (it is also likely that, as usual, I have no idea what I'm talking about).

I'm following [**Learn you a Haskell for a great good**](http://learnyouahaskell.com/), that I've known since my college days: it's quite fun, and a breeze to read. And with the purpose of keeping track of my progress and hopefully show you all some cool stuff, here are some nice things I've learned and remembered about Haskell, so far.

### Texas ranges 🤠

Python has got list comprehension, which is a nice way to define arrays. Haskell takes that concept a little further with Texas ranges.

```haskell
ghci> [1..20]
[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20]
ghci> ['K'..'Z']
"KLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ"
ghci> [2,4..20]
[2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20]
ghci> [3,6..20]
[3,6,9,12,15,18]
```

It *sort of* guesses step on arithmetic sequences. Quite nice!

### Proper list comprehension

```haskell
[ x | x <- [10..20], x /= 13, x /= 15, x /= 19]
```

And here is the equivalent of a list comprehension; taking all `x` between 10 and 20, with the various conditions, comma separated: `x` must not be 13, 15, nor 19.

### Pattern Matching

This also came to Python very recently (3.10, I suppose?), but Haskell has had it all along, and maybe in a more powerful way.

```haskell
lucky :: (Integral a) => a -> String
lucky 7 = "LUCKY NUMBER SEVEN!"
lucky x = "Sorry, you're out of luck, pal!"
```

`lucky` is a function that takes an `Integral` (either `Int` or `Integer`, which would correspond to `int` and something like an unbound `int`, in C) and returns a `String`. It should be read top down, and it *sort of* works like a switch case. If `a` is 7, `"LUCKY NUMBER SEVEN!"` is returned; `"Sorry, you're out of luck, pal!"` otherwise.

```haskell
addVectors :: (Num a) => (a, a) -> (a, a) -> (a, a)
addVectors a b = (fst a + fst b, snd a + snd b)
```
In this case, `addVectors` expects two pairs of numbers, and returns a pair (the right-most element is always the return type, and whatever is left of it would be the entry parameters). `fst` and `snd` return the first and second element of a pair, respectively. Notice how `a` and `b` got matched to be the first and the second pair (`fst a + fst b` only works because `a` and `b` are matched to a pair).

However, there's a much more elegant solution that takes the pattern matching even further.

```haskell
addVectors :: (Num a) => (a, a) -> (a, a) -> (a, a)
addVectors (x1, y1) (x2, y2) = (x1 + x2, y1 + y2)
```
In this case, `(x1, y1) (x2, y2)` expand both pairs to the two elements of each! This seems quite fun.

```haskell
length' :: (Num b) => [a] -> b  
length' [] = 0  
length' (_:xs) = 1 + length' xs
```

`_` denotes something that *won't be used*; what a cool recursive function!


<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
