---
title: Day 41 - A start of a new week! 🌹
date: 2022-01-24
description: Some musings, and, like, whatever.
tags: musings
---

# {{ $page.title }}

It's good to be back to work! However, a [small amendment to a previous post must be made](https://www.alexmakes.codes/blog/011022.html): working on self-projects really is very rewarding; one learns with not set expectations for results, and it makes for a great sandbox environment to try new things out. Well, to be fair: I haven't really tried *new things out*. So let's maybe keep an eye out for that?

## Solving a *real issue* with the broadcasts 📡

Live radio is great fun, *but sometimes one happens to partake in glorious Sunday meals*, with wine and food aplenty 🍛 in those (very marginal) cases, a strategy must be set in place to allow for broadcasting of previously recorded material, and, ideally, some form of interaction with the server to manage the broadcast content. Further perks would entail having a web interface: much easier (and accessible) than carrying around SSH authenticated devices (even though there seem to be some [SSH applications for the iPhone](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/termius-ssh-client/id549039908), for example - this is probably good enough for a quick implementation of the system).

What I'd like to have now is a login page that protects a view (a page), with interface for interaction with the server.

### Finding a solution 💡

After some quick googling, it looks like [Flask-Login](https://flask-login.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) solves most of my problems. It is, however, a (very non-opinionated) package intended for *handling users on an application*, and my use case (a single user, really, which is me) simplifies the matter greatly. It means I don't necessarily need a database for storage and handling of many users. Most of that can be hard-coded in local configuration files.

### Initialising the framework 🎬

This is also a breeze. Install it through `pip`, initialise with the following commands.

```python
login_manager = LoginManager()
login_manager.init_app(app)
``` 

All good, so far. The next step is a little trickier.

::: tip How it works (from the official documentation)

You will need to provide a `user_loader` callback. This callback is used to reload the user object from the user ID stored in the session. It should take the unicode ID of a user, and return the corresponding user object. For example:

``` python
@login_manager.user_loader
def load_user(user_id):
    return User.get(user_id)
```

It should return None (not raise an exception) if the ID is not valid. (In that case, the ID will manually be removed from the session and processing will continue.)
:::

The `@` denotes *decorating*, which is Python syntax for using a function as argument to another one; [more on that here](https://realpython.com/primer-on-python-decorators/); in this case, `load_user` is being passed as an argument to `login_manager.user_loader`. Again, I'm not using a real database - but the framework requires a User object anyway. I'll propose creating the `User` object (or `Admin`?) that will always have only a single instantiation.

The documentation kindly lets us know of some mandatory methods for the class; all of them are very straightforward, but the `is_authenticated` is somewhat special: as 


<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
