---
title: Day 43 - More fixes on the website, and architectural problems 🏛
date: 2022-01-26
description: Juggling all the services is fun...I swear 🤹‍♂️
tags: bzzzzzzz
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Yesterday I managed to implement a volume bar for the broadcast, whose audio is being normalised with the assistance of ReplayGain and some other `mpd` tools to that effect. So that is done. Volume control is still not perfect, though: it should be supressed on mobile, both because it doesn't quite work and smartphones can be easily managed with the volume buttons, and there's also a big accessibility problem, because one must *drag* the volume bar with the mouse. I don't really like this solution, and will be on this later.

## Getting current song information 🎻

This is a very important feature to have, and the most logical step after fixing the volume trouble; and there are many ways to tackle this particular problem. Icecast provides song information on the broadcasting webpage, so one could scrap that webpage for the information using the visitor's client; but the code is probably not too elegant.

Another possibility, to which I am a little more inclined, is having *another container* running the `mpd` instance, *plus a small API with one route only*: to get the current song. It seems like more work, but it is a better call for the future. I think the worst part will be getting a Certbot certificate for another API.

Now that I am a little more comfortable with Docker, geting a container up and running is quite easy, now. I picked Alpine Linux (it's a really small distribution - we don't need many whistles and bells to get this particular container running), and installed both Python and mpd. Both applications need to be ran at startup, and so I learned about OpenRC (and some beef with systemd, apparently? No idea). The next step is to get both services up and running, and then route nginx appropriately.

## A better Docker practice - CD/CI? 🐳

I do must admit, however, that my Docker workflow is not the best. There's a live build operating on the Raspberry, and thus I don't develop there; however, I cannot properly simulate a build on my local workstation yet. 


<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
