---
title: Day 45 - Taking care of another container 🎁
date: 2022-01-28
description: Maybe Alpine Linux was not a good choice? 😱
tags: Docker, Linux
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Today's objective is having the mpd container running. As previously stated, it will serve two services: the `mpd` instance, and an API that delivers the song info for our front-end (and implement remote controls, too?). So yesterday `open-rc` was installed, and after looking into some information, I found the [OpenRC wiki](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/OpenRC); it has some information on getting services running.

I did, however, get some errors, akin to these:

```
/lib/rc/sh/openrc-run.sh: line 279: can't create /sys/fs/cgroup/blkio/tasks: Read-only file system
/lib/rc/sh/openrc-run.sh: line 279: can't create /sys/fs/cgroup/cpu/tasks: Read-only file system
[...]
```

The solution, it seems, was provided [by this reply](https://github.com/gliderlabs/docker-alpine/issues/437#issuecomment-494200575); but there were [two other](https://github.com/gliderlabs/docker-alpine/issues/437#issuecomment-751319576) whose content intrigued me. It is an interesting take on container architecture using Alpine, but having fixed the issue, I don't think I'll be looking back (for now, maybe!).

My current Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.14
VOLUME ["/sys/fs/cgroup"]

RUN apk add --no-cache mpd python3 openrc mpc

RUN ["rc-update","add","mpd","default"] 
```

## Getting more comfortable with Docker 🐳

During the process of incremental changes to the container, the unfortunate realisation of having no clue of how Docker really works dawned on me 🌻 So here are some notes.

::: tip 
- **Images** are the basis of **containers**. **Containers** are the *runtime instances* of **images**. (I know, I know — just making sure this is out there) 
- **Build images with a tag** (`docker build . -t <tag>`); when running a container, one can then fetch the corresponding image by doing `docker images <tag>`
:::

My current issue is getting access to the container after it launches using a successful image build. Since I built the image using an `mpd` tag, this is achieved by running `docker run -it $(docker images mpd -q)`.

### Is `mpd` a service?

```
/ # rc-status default
Runlevel: default
 mpd                                                                                             [  stopped  ]
```

`mpd` is a service, but stopped; this must be a running service. After the command `rc-service mpd start` is ran, `rc-service default` shows it failed; re-run with `rc-service mpd start --verbose`, to get the following:

```
/ # rc-service mpd start -v
 * Executing: /lib/rc/sh/openrc-run.sh /lib/rc/sh/openrc-run.sh /etc/init.d/mpd start
 * Starting Music Player Daemon ...
 * supervise-daemon: fopen `/var/run/supervise-mpd.pid': No such file or directory
 * Detaching to start `/usr/bin/mpd'                                                                    [ ok ]
 ```

 I tried to fiddle with this for a bit; and maybe there is too much overhead for present Alexandre as of now.

## Just get mpd running; no services involved 🤷‍♂️

Why complicate? So far, no containers had services running, and it's not like *I need services right now*. Alpine was fun and all (not really), but it is time to *Get Things Done* ®

```Dockerfile
FROM debian:buster-slim

ENV DEBIAN_FRONTEND noninteractive
RUN apt update
RUN apt-get -y install mpd mpc vim ncmpcpp
RUN mkdir /home/playlists /home/music home/database
RUN chown mpd /home/database

COPY neil /home/music/neil
COPY mpd.conf /etc/mpd.conf
```

After some fiddling, this is the current Dockerfile. `vim` and `ncmpcpp` are installed for debugging purposes, and there is a change of ownership so that `mpd` can create its database. `neil` is a folder of Neil Young songs (for debugging purposes! 😆). And it works! It can properly stream to the Icecast server. 

## Connecting `ncmpcpp` to the remote `mpd` instance 📻

Since `mpd` is already running near to production configuration, I'd like to properly control playback and database using `ncmpcpp` — it is a very good `mpd` client that runs on the command line. This was actually fairly trivial to achieve: I only needed to open the correct ports on my router to allow for connections on the `mpd` port, and connectivity ensues!

## Dockerising `mpd`...is not so easy.

Well, I wouldn't have expected trouble on such a later stage. There are two issues with dockerising the `mpd` process: first, the container exits because all of the tasks are finished; and that is probably a consequence of the `mpd` instance failing to initiate in the first place. I'm also having issues with passing volumes. So the latter half of the day was a little frustrating.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
