---
title: Day 47 - Cleaning up the services 🧹
date: 2022-01-30
description: Getting the whole stack ready! 🥞
tags: linux
---

# {{ $page.title }}

With the `mpd` instance up and running, and the song API deployed, one would think there is little left to be done. Oh, how wrong would that assessment be! As I said before, this Raspberry is running a torrenting service — Transmission — with a few perks: it has a watch folder, and it downloads to a particular directory. Unfortunately, this is a long running machine, and some setup errors led to sometimes having two or three different instances of the service. 

I need to sort this out, as the stack relies heavily on getting files from this service.

## How to trace the OS behaviour 🧐

After a reboot, I can see the Transmission client is already running. With a `ps aux` command, one can see the running processes on the machine; add a `grep` to it, and it filters for Transmission instances.

```
debian-+   652  2.6  3.5 109104 33176 ?        Ssl  11:04   1:04 /usr/bin/transmission-daemon -f --log-error
```

I learned that the `+` stands for an incomplete name; in fact, `debian-+` is actually `debian-transmission`. 

Now, the issue is figuring out where this service loads its configuration file from. I'm wondering because there are *lots of files* — my files, mind you — still seeding, but the daemon behaviour seems off. It doesn't care for the watch folder anymore, for example. [A user on a forum suggests](https://forum.transmissionbt.com/viewtopic.php?p=73008&sid=386a0066c4886d6c5d748895fe6ab9ec#p73008) "`Run the daemon with -f and --logfile <path> and --log-debug and the logfile should tell you which settings.json file it is loading`". I used `/tmp/transmissionlog` as a path (to avoid permission issues), and restarted the service. This is the output:

```
[2022-01-30 12:27:18.515] Using settings from "/var/lib/transmission-daemon/.config/transmission-daemon" (daemon.c:528)
[2022-01-30 12:27:18.515] Saved "/var/lib/transmission-daemon/.config/transmission-daemon/settings.json" (variant.c:1274)
```

[This is a very useful blog post](https://zsitko.com/transmission-raspberry-pi/) that outlines answers to many of my questions, and in fact the Transmission service is loading the expected config file. This doesn't still answer my question — why did it lost sight of the watch folder? — but I suppose I won't ever get an answer to that question.

I configured it to have a proper watch folder, and everything seems to be working correctly (it survives a reboot with the proper config!).
 
## What now...? 🌅
The next step is a clean-up of the downloads directory; I'd like to start all over again and build the 24/7 radio stream upon a new database. There's a catch, however: I don't want to delete any torrents that rely upon me as the only seeder. Although the client stopped seeding these — it has fully transitioned into the new user - the tracker I use has an API. I can run through every torrent file, check it against the API, and determine whether or not I should keep it. This is a very standard scripting procedure and I don't expect it to take too long.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
