---
title: Day 50 - Celebrating halfway!
date: 2022-02-04
description: 50 days done, 50 more to go!
tags: musings, manjaro
---

# {{ $page.title }}

I've been eyeing a new machine for quite a while now. My main computer is rather large and heavy - a 16" -, and it's not too practical for commutes nor for outdor work. On the hunt for something a little smaller and resilient enough to be carried around with no worries, the Thinkpad models crossed my mind. At first I looked into the x250 model, but the x260 had the native HDMI port (instead of the very outdated VGA) which struck my fancy. After a couple of weeks of intensive searching throughout the internet, I found a FullHD equipped model, and with the i7 processor to wrap up the beauty package.

So...I'm very excited about working with a Linux distro (Manjaro with i3 for now) and tailoring it to my taste. And I'm also keen on understanding where a different work platform might have a positive impact on my daily life (Manjaro is, by its very nature, much less distracting than my daily driver Mac OS - at least for now!).

## Trouble so far...

I can make a pretty hefty list of issues that need some special care. 

### There are no emojis! :(

You probably noticed by now how barebones this post looks! It's so sad not to have emojis.

### The keyboard is swedish, or something?

This is fine, as I am already used to having the US keyboard as input; the company whom I bought the machine from actually sent a complimentary sticker pack for the keyboard (naturally, the first thing I did was omit the Windows logo, which now has a sideways X over it), but it features the Portuguese keyboard, which I am not a fan of either.

### Still some accessibility issues!

I have decent eyesight, but struggle a lot with small font. This display is rather small with a high definition, thus font is naturally small by default. The 
default terminal had no obvious way of increasing the font size, thus I went for the Kitty terminal, that reacted positively to the `ctrl +` combination. But there are still many other configs to do (it's been killing me to have Caps Lock with its original function - I usually set it to `ctrl` now).

### Backspaces send *weird input* into the Raspberry terminal? 

It probably has something to do with termcaps or whatever, but this is slightly annoying.

So...I suppose this it, for now - even though certainly aplenty? I know I still have a few more quips to handle, but I have to start somewhere. It took me just a couple of minutes to set up my ssh keys, and in no time got access to my usual workflow. And that feels really cool! 

But not all is good. Alexandre is, sometimes, *a very good programmer*. But he is too, and much more often than that, *a lazy human being*. I have been receiving some emails from Certbot - some sort of service that provides HTTPS certificates for websites -, letting me know that the certificates must be renewed. Of course, I put that off...until they expired, which was today.

Why is this bad? All the APIs and services related to my websites depend on HTTPS. Browsers block open and unsecure requests (HTTP) on secure (HTTPS) services (all of them? under all circumstances? I'm not sure!) - this usually results on a `mixed_content` error, IIRC. So, right now, this has to be fixed.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
