---
title: Day 51 - Manjaro i3 101!
date: 2022-02-06
description: I kinda know what I'm doing, I swear! 
tags: musings, manjaro
---

# {{ $page.title }}

*Alright, alright, alright*! How is everyone else doing so far? All good over here, except for a funny cold I seem to have caught: lots of runny nose, and half-closed, blurry eyes, which means I haven't left the house much throughout the weekend... and, you know, I might have to take tomorrow off too! 

One will, and very fairly, understand my feeling a little debilitated, and probably in need of some rest - *put yourself to bed, Alexandre! Please do recover very quickly!* - but I must confess to be *very very very very much* excited about this new machine of mine; and, akin to a great many days of my childhood, I don't really feel bad at all to be spending quality time with a new friend!

Now, there were some immediate hurdles I had to take care of, and here's enumerating a few off the top of my head:

### the backspace key sends bad input with SSH on the Raspberry Pi
I still have no idea where to start with this. Of course, the most sensible would be *to ask Mr. ~~Google~~ Duck*, but a very dear friend of mine has already suggested something, last Friday and just in passing, about some isssues I would face when ssh'ing into other machines. I don't quite know what the cause is, but as I still have the Mac to play with, all of what I needed done has been on that other machine.

### substitute caps lock key with control key
It is very much a shame that *custom keymapping* is such an absent concept in my other OS experiences.
To be fair, Mac OS has it, but *why wasn't I told about it sooner?*. I have only known about this from trying Emacs out: since its *meta* key (a button on the keyboard you press very often, like `AltGr`, on the Portuguese keyboard, necessary to reach the `@`) is quite far from the keyboards' *homerow* (from A to L on the QWERTY keyboard, a *natural resting place for the fingers when typing*), the pinky finger gets streched a lot, possibly causing discomfort. I know, I know...but it's true!

Well, after fiddling with this for a while and going for much more complex solutions than needed, I found a way to achieve it with something like this: `setxkbmap -option ctrl:nocaps`. I'm a little confusd because I have lots of tabs open and tried many things too. It has been, however, less of an issue the more familiar I get with the window system (i3, and not the processor chip!).

In any case, the CapsLock key is now mapped to Ctrl!

### get emojis...quickly!
My digital expression has felt more and more tampered with as the emojis are still lacking. I know of a solution, but this might warrant a special post tomorrow. That, and some stuff about exams. 

## Regarding the renewal of Certbot certificates!

The whole process is actually much simpler that what I anticipated. I see the point of doing it with Docker containers, but it was just a matter of running Certbot and nginx on the bare Raspbian OS. Of course, I did this to circumvent a couple of issues that were too iffy to waste much time with: the Docker hub Certbot image doesn't run on ARM architecture, and my docker-compose only runs on sudo (I should have cleared this up by now...), and somehow I could not pair it with an automatic-certificate-and-renewal-script I found on the web. All is good now, though, and it is certainly possible (and very feasible) to automate the renewal process in the future.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
