---
title: Day 52 - Back to front-end work! 🔥
date: 2022-02-08
description: Some more shenanigans with Vue...
tags: Vue, js
---

# {{ $page.title }}

What mostly excites me about working on this particular machine (the school's iMac) is both the great size (this is a massive 27" screen!) *and the ability to PLACE 👏 SOME 👏 EMOJIS!* I'm still trying to take care of that.

## Further work in Vue!

I'm not sure I've been throught this before, but I'm developing an application that front-ends an API for entry logs in the school. A friend of mine has built the back-end in Go, and today the goal is to get some API calls going.

To start with, I created a simple button, with a `@click` directive. It calls a `getLogs` function which, for now, will only log `success` on the console (baby steps!)

``` html
<button @click="getLogs">Get Logs</button>
```

The next step is bringing some Axios connectivity. Sequoya, the friendly mindful tree, taught me about centralising Axios on something akin to a module, instead of redefining it across all components. This is quite sound advice, so I'll follow on his footsteps. Below is how I defined my Axios module, with two interceptors that log both the request and its response.

``` js
const axios = require('axios');

const ax = axios.create({
	baseURL: 'http://localhost:8080',
})

ax.interceptors.response.use((res) => { 
    console.log(res);
    // Important: response interceptors **must** return the response.
    return res;
  }),

ax.interceptors.request.use((req) => {
      console.log(`${req.method} ${req.url}`);
      // Important: request interceptors **must** return the request.
      return req;
    });

module.exports = ax;
```

Having generalised the Axios calls, now I need to refactor the working Axios GET request that was already implemented. After a few brief tweaks, the following code works.

``` vue
<script>
import ax from '../../utils/axios.js';

export default {
	data: () => ({
		connectivity: false,
	}),
	mounted () {
		ax.interceptors.response.use(res => {
			console.log(res.data);
			if (res.data.message == 'pong')
				this.connectivity = true;
			return res;
		});
		axios.get('http://localhost:8080/ping')
	}
}
</script>
```

There's a small hurdle with this particular refactor, that is, I feel, mostly due to my lack of familiarity with Javascript. I can change the previous structure to this, and it will work.

``` js
mounted () {
	ax.interceptors.response.use(res => {
		if (res.data.message == 'pong')
			this.connectivity = true;
		return res;
	});
	ax.get('ping')
}
```

but I do wonder, however, if it would be good practice to set up two interceptors (remember one is already set up on the `axios.js` file!). I feel this could also be achieved with the following

``` js
mounted () {
	ax.get('ping').then(
		function (res) {
			if (res.data.message == 'pong')
				this.connectivity = true;
	})
}
```

but this yields an error of `Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: this is undefined`. I did some searching, and came across [a very useful post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36176073/what-is-vue-way-to-access-to-data-from-methods) that seems to tackle this issue head on! Using their trick of defining a variable inside the `mounted()` scope that references `this`, it is now possible to go with 

``` vue
<script>
import ax from '../utils/axios.js';

export default {
	data: () => ({
		connectivity: false,
	}),
	mounted () {
		ax.get('ping').then(
			function (res) {
				if (res.data.message == 'pong')
					this.connectivity = true;
		})
	}
}
</script>
```

which feels much cleaner! 

## Refactoring is done; now onto new territory!

With this being done, work on the new feature can be initiated! This is an API call with the url in the format of `127.0.0.1:8080/logs/all/:start/:end`. These two variables are in the Datetime ISOFormat. Here's an example: `2022-02-08T12:16:12.716Z`. I'm thinking, for a test, we can try to get the logs for the previous past half hour; and this is the quick code I got wrapped:

```js
	getLogs() {
		let now = new Date();
		let nowTS = now.toISOString();
		let halfHourBeforeTS = new Date(now.getTime() - 30 * 60 * 1000).toISOString();
		ax.get(`logs/all/${halfHourBeforeTS}/${nowTS}`).then(
			function (res) {
				this.logs = response.data;
		})
	},
```

The calls are successful, and now what's left is handling the response content! Inside the [Vue documentation](https://v2.vuejs.org/v2/cookbook/using-axios-to-consume-apis.html) (albeit for v2 - I'm running v3!) there are some good examples.

## Some context for today's grand finale 🙆‍♂️

The previous API call got me a list of users; I saved the return value of the call on a variable (`logs`) referenced in the component `data`, which was then accessed by the `this` keyword. The next is then to take **each log** on that list of logs, and get more information with a separate API call.

I quickly devised the following code, conveniently ommiting sensitive information:

```js
	async function(token) {
		await ax.get(`endpoint/${token}`)
			.then((response) => {
				return response.data['login'];
				})
		},
```

and then, `function` would be ran under a `v-for="log in this.logs"`. I'm calling it as `function(token)` directly on the Vue template, naively hoping it would work right away; but it seems like it must, somehow, be *proxied* into a variable on the component's `data` once again. 

If it is so...this feels like a fundamental step in groking Vue. This particular function is just returning a string, and *it feels natural* to expect it to work right away; on the other hand, this is a *promise* (precisely a concept I am yet to master in Javascript...), with a very specific behaviour. 

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
