---
title: Day 53 - A sunny day, outside! (imagine a sunflower emoji, now!)
date: 2022-02-09
description: A very important realisation about this machine! And then more Vue!
tags: musings, manjaro, vue
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Let me tell you a secret. *These very words* were were written yesterday in the late afternoon - at that time I laid in a very comfortable park in Lisbon. Not early enough to still catch some sun; but, even after its setting before the trees and the buildings, the light was still more than enough for a light computer work session, and I could see the sunlight reflected in the buildings opposite. A very kind sort of scenery, right? I thought so too!

There were issues, however. My phone's battery was almost dead, thus I didn't venture into broadcasting my own network. It was then I realised the charm of one of my most coveted Thinkpad features: a SIM card port! I shall look into how this works soon.

Internet-less as I was, I turned into reading anything I could get my eyes on, and cleared a couple of browser loaded tabs with interesting articles. It was only one, really - but a great one, about someone looking for a job doing Haskell...and I managed to understood maybe three concepts mentioned in the blog entry. 

And then, I really felt like writing a blog post! The bzzzzzzz urgently needs content and away I go, enthusiastically pressing some nifty key-combos until a blank vim window set itself in front of me. But I quickly realised how the Portuguese keyboard layout is yet to work on the machine, rendering all sorts of weird symbols we rely on sort of impossible to produce. In any case, a very well-written, tender passage was written; I copied it over to this blog post for everyone in the world to see.

Now, vim is great, you know? Vim and Linux, then, together, working in tandem? An absolute charm. What if one throws in a gigantic lack of experience with this sort of barebones interface?! You would most certainly have a pretty giant letdown for Alexandre, this quirky little fella! 

Vim has some very weird behaviours with Caps Lock; it's a weird modifier that does some pretty weird things I never quite put any effort to learn nor predict, and instead, as you know by now, I map it to something a little less weird and much more convenient. It just so happens that after turning it on, it looked like a great idea to re-run the `setxkbmap -option ctrl:nocaps`; and I have this lingering impression I was well aware of what was going to happen maybe, say, 75% commited to the gesture of pressing the Enter key.

With a perma CapsLock on, everything I typed was REALLY LOUD. So lloud, indeed, that the terminal couldn't quite make out `SETXKBMAP` as a real command; nor, much more sadly, being able to PROPERLY QUIT VIM BY TYPING `:q` - and thus losing a very endearing paragraph in the process. There's bound to be someone out there who finds this to be quite hilarious: I was, in a very silly way, hostage to SHOUTING VERY MUCH UNTIL LOGGING OUT OF MY ACCOUNT.

So that's the tweet. 

## Back onto yesterday's problem!

My friend Gú pointed me towards building an object with every promise's content, instead of trying to directly render the promises (which I don't even know to be possible in the first place). 

The main object I am dealing with appears as such, when logged on the console. It is, I believe, a very standard response from a request. 

``` js
{
  "data": [
    {
		...
    }
  ],
  "status": 200,
  "statusText": "OK",
  "headers": {
	  ...
  },
  "config": {
	  ...
  },
  "request": {}
}
```

I'm mostly interested in its `data` Array, whose content is composed of smaller objects with the following structure:

``` 
{
  "param1int": 1427036,
  "param2str": "Axis-accc8edfc9c3:1609771999.099655019",
  "param3str": "Axis-accc8edfc9c3:1609771997.173393019",
  "param4str": "P0D",
  "param5bool": true,
  "param6time": "2022-02-09T10:33:08.955975Z"
}
```

Now, how to elegantly extract these Array elements from the original response? Something simple like `this.queriedLogs = response.data` yields a Proxy object, which I've never seen before and seems a little overkill (`The Proxy object allows you to create an object that can be used in place of the original object, but which may redefine fundamental Object operations like getting, setting, and defining properties.`, from the [documentation definition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy#description). I fiddled around in browser console, but was getting different behaviours between that and the Vue code, which insists on producing Proxies. I just need an object, man - Python is so much more simple, sometimes!

I solved this by iterating over the `response.data` object, and redefining a new object with parameters imported from the original response object. This is very lame.

```js 
	async processLogs () {
		for (let i = 0; i < this.queriedLogs.length; i++)
		{
			let entry = this.queriedLogs[i]
			this.parsedLogs[i] = new Object();
			this.parsedLogs[i]['param0'] = await this.getUserFromCredToken(entry['param0']);
			this.parsedLogs[i]['param1'] = this.queriedLogs[i]['param1']
			this.parsedLogs[i]['param2'] = this.queriedLogs[i]['param2']
			this.parsedLogs[i]['param3'] = this.queriedLogs[i]['param3']
	 	}
	},

```

Probably the worst Javascript code I ever made; this can be summed up in a `zip` or something - I'll get to it eventually.

## Fixing the keyboard issue on Manjaro i3!

Considering all the funky stuff of yesterday, fixing the keyboard *really is a priority*. After another thorough search, [I found a very useful article](https://medium.com/@damko/a-simple-humble-but-comprehensive-guide-to-xkb-for-linux-6f1ad5e13450) detailing much of XDB's behaviour. It just so happens that I followed lots of previous information and it seemed to make sense; but this particular approach hit the nail in the head.

So, **in my case**, changes only made an effect when editing the `etc/default/keyboard` file. 

`

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
