---
title: Day 54 - A very exciting day at the school! 🏋️‍♂️
date: 2022-02-10
description: Everyone is cramming code in 42 hours! 😱
tags: musings, manjaro
---

# {{ $page.title }}

## A coding marathon! ⌨️

I really enjoy the idea of a coding marathon! It brings back memories of teenager Alexandre, his exciting, franctic dialogues with a keyboard all night long - a shame it was mostly with stupid games that didn't do much for adult me now, but, still: *nostalgia*! ✨ So the school arranged for 42 straight hours of coding, of which I skipped the first fifteen or so - Cinemateca was screening a Gene Kelly double bill, with *Singin' In The Rain* and *It's Always Fair Weather*, and I wouldn't miss that for *anything* - but I do now feel both the contact high of *lot's of enthusiasm to code* and an arresting need to include singing and dancing into *every single activity*. What a disastrous mix! 💥

Of course, time calls for some focus on the 42 course; but there are *so many other exciting things* to partake on!

## Handling syncronization across all my devices!

This is a recurring problem, ever so worse as new devices and workspaces are added to my life. As a `vim` enthusiast, my workflow is highly dependant on very specific configurations I've tailored to my needs; but it's not unified across the at least four regular workstations I have access to. So I suppose that changes...*right now*!

I've been giving this some thought the past couple of days, and `rsync` seems like the best solution: the Raspberry acts like the central entity which holds the latest configuration, and every device shall, upon waking, syncronize its settings with it. Seems easy?

[The tool documentation](https://rsync.samba.org/documentation.html) is great! There's a discussion on needing to run `rsync` as a daemon on the background for handling of repeated or frequent calls; I'm unsure that is necessarily my case. For now, all I need is a nice script to run whenever I need changes to be pulled and pushed.

## (finally) getting emoji support! 

Manjaro is finally able to display emojis - but I'm still not able to introduce them on demand. The first part was rather easy: just a matter of getting an emoji package (I chose Tweemoji, as it is familiar to Twitter users and, in general, quite a decent pack) and then editing the `etc/fonts/fonts.conf` file accordingly. [Here's a link for the procedure](https://archived.forum.manjaro.org/t/tutorial-how-to-enable-system-wide-color-emoji-support/35188). In my case, the file was already previously populated with some information, and I wondered whether introducing that `<alias>` element would be enough (one can change its content to whatever; in my case, it is just Noto Sans/Serif and Tweemoji, and nothing seems to be broken). Maybe I'll do some experimentation with the fonts, but not for now.

The next step is producing emojis on demand, but there's a very good script from [Luke Smith's LARBS](https://larbs.xyz/) that is probably exactly what I'm looking for. And it runs pretty well! I renamed it from `dmenuunicode` to `emojidropdown`. 

## ...and, well, another issue!

I cannot copy nor paste - interactions in general - with the clipboard on `vim`, or `neovim` for that matter. So I have to fix it tomorrow.


<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
