---
title: Day 55 - Just very few tweaks here and there... 🧰
date: 2022-02-11
description: the new friend is shaping up to work! 🕹️
tags: manjaro, musings, lardafada
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Oh well! Today we start with a little show-off. Notice what I intended to be emojis, right at the title and below. One of them renders quite poorly; it was titled *toolbox*; all I see on `neovim` (more on that later) is a white dotted line, and the i3 interface renders a box. The other emoji is a joystick, and actually very well formatted and readable. I'll take some pictures later, and maybe try to figure out what this whole deal with Unicode is all about. 

Now, onto some other things: `neovim` is up and running, and this current machine is running the most up-to-date *version*, let's call it that, of my current workspace setup. So I must set as a priority to properly backup this config and serve it simultaneously to every other machine I might use. 

## Alright! And what now? 🎆 

*Reassess yourself, brave Alexandre! On what front are you taking on next?*, asks the curious reader, happy to share the excitement of very little and easy tasks piling up! 🤸 (*person cartwheeling*, if by chance you also wondered what this emoji is cast as in the tool!)

I feel now `bzzzzzzz` needs some care. Not necessarily the visual part - on that I feel quite confident now - but the back-end side of things: content insertion must be quick and reliable (considering this particular computer as a baseline for accessibility), and lots of processes can be automated even further. More on that later.

## Immediate problems on `lardafada` to solve:

The clipboard feels now more reliable, so that problem seems to be accounted for; on the other hand, I still haven't wandered onto getting the external display to work (luckily, Luke Smith also has some script for that). Everything *feels great*, really, but here are some notes anyway.

I'd like to have definite windows, or at least set up a script that launches whole development environments. Say with the `bzzzzzzz` project, for example: I need a shell window running the server, a browser and a `vim` instance by its side. But navigation is cumbersome - is i3 scriptable?

Some other thing I find notable is how sensible I've become to the organisation of the workspace. On the Mac, I usually just create tabs on the terminal, split some panes on a whim, and then in case of need just make a grand gesture at its amazing trackpad to have a big, global overview of it all. The actions feel snappy and it makes sense, but working at this lower level of interfacing one does really start to appreciate keeping it simple and quick, without barely moving the hands on a keyboard. A stroke of some keys feels as powerful as graciously dancing the whole hand over the aluminum chassis of the Macbook, and this all feels like a nice tool to master.

I was going to show you all a very cool screenshot I took just now. Unfortunately, this still hasn't got anything to render image files, so that will be postponed for tomorrow 🙃

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
