---
title: Day 55.4 - Oh, programming - it's been so long!
date: 2022-03-08
description: Could it possibly be that it will stop halfway? 
tags: musings, lardafada
---

# {{ $page.title }}

*the following was written on* lardafada, *at 09:49:06*.

(just a quick note before I mind it off: `shift+t` navigates tabs in Vimium!)

I left Lisbon for a handful of days; it had been a long while since my last departure, and although I've been here (up north!) since last thursday, only today was I able to enjoy a long walk in the woods. It really does wonders in cleansing body and mind. Having now fullfilled some very immediate obligations that kept my programming at bay, I am now ready to reorganise myself — once again — and get a much needed grasp on whatever must happen next. 

Oh, and I've been spending these days without the Mac, for no special reason other than making myself more dependable on this new machine — and also not to be carrying around two computers on round trips back and forth seems like *a very good idea*. In fact, the Thinkpad proved itself a great companion on the bus trip!

Here are some bullet points pertaining to the long period of absence, and some bullet points for what's needed up ahead.

### emojis are still absent from the kitty terminal

This is not that big of a deal, but it can mess up some of the text rendering whenever I insert emojis on vim; it happens often, say, with these Markdown posts.

### there is still not a proper SSH agent on `lardafada`

Again, not that big of a deal, but inserting the ssh passphrase every single time something has to be done over the network gets old very, very fast.

### err....how to update the software?

The Manjaro i3 interface has quite a handy icon that alerts for software updates, but I haven't yet tried to update it. This has probably been for the best — and updating now, without a backup machine, might prove itself a little risky. But I shall keep it in mind.

### the torrenting interface project has had some progress!

Results are now shown in a more efficient manner (it takes much less space!); Rich interfacing has been put off for now (but not forgotten!).

### Bluetooth connectivity is yet to be configured 

This is also somewhat important — I'm missing bluetooth connectivity, for some headphones.

*the following was written on* lardafada, *at 20:09:24*.

Just so I can keep a log on what happened today: the `ssh-agent` was a priority, and I got some leads on where to aim next. I currently have an agent running on the user instance (with `systemctl --user`), but the same problems arise. So far, no solution seems to work in providing a way to retain the passphrase authentication across many terminal instances (authenticating using `ssh-add` will only work on the same terminal session, and even that requires the `eval "$(ssh-agent)"` trick). I'm still rather clueless, but will get there eventually. I wouldn't like to remove the passphrase just to circumvent this issue.

As a workaround, I looked into mounting the Raspberry over `sshfs`, which is a quite sensible procedure to properly (and without much authentication hassle) get any files from that server.

As for bluetooth, I also gave it a go — but of course it doesn't quite work out of the box. It recognizes my devices, but nothing further than that; and apparently, all the software updated itself during the afternoon, which was a surprise. All seems fine!

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

