---
title: Day 55.5 - Some misc. updates on stuff 🩰 
date: 2022-03-12
description: Like, just very small things, really
tags: musings, lardafada
---

# {{ $page.title }}

I am still back home, enjoying a very laid back few days before I get back to Lisbon. It has been nice to give all of this a thought: do I *really* want to be a programmer? Will I ever be *a good one*? And is it worth it if I am not? All my worries span along these lines, but I feel eventually all be ok — or so I suppose, at least — although I have trouble shaking off the notion of not being a hard enough worker; that it is only a matter of time before all of my procrastination catches up to me, in a very *karmic* way, putting to ground all my ambitions of living a happy, peaceful, and well-off life.

On the other hand, I just read Cal Newport's *Digital Minimalism*, whose content is not much different, in essence, of his previous and seminal *Deep Work*. It helps as a remember to recognize in myself a great many of the unhealthy digital habits that make up a big chunk of my day. Thus I have been undertaking the effort of being more mindful about the computer use, the internet use, the smartphone use, and hopefully there will be progress to report on the upcoming days. 

And there's not much to add, really: the bzzzzzzz website is undergoing some trouble with the 24/7 stream, and I should set up some logging to figure out why the connection to the broadcast server drops so frequently; even a script to restore the connection would be useful (and quite necessary, at this point). But I don't quite feel like it, at the moment. Is that okay, everyone?

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

