---
title: Day 55.9 - Following the roadmap! 🗺
date: 2022-03-21
description: Oh, if all goes according to plan...
tags: vue
---

*the following was written on* bocals-iMac, *at 10:16:44*.

# {{ $page.title }}

To kick off the week in the right way, I made a little plan for the week. As for the Vue stuff, I want to finish this particular component — it entails searching for a user, selecting it, and displaying the appropriate information for it; and then, there's *the rest of my life*, which is only tangentially related to programming (I am deploying a new Django project, so there is that).

So, let's get this done **the right way**.

## State of the art 👨‍🎨

As it is, I can now search for a user and (hopefully) have the correct result display as first; if not, one can tab over the results and select the right one.

### Changing the result listing to `button` elements;

My (ever so dear!) friend Gú pointed out how the `button` element is tabbable by default, and moreover adds the mouse clicking functionality, for those who are not keyboard inclined. This seems like a proper addition to the website (otherwise, mouse-clickers would be very confused!). That is implemented (just switch out the `div` for `button`; no biggie).

### Selecting the user;

Whenever one finds the appropriate user, we will allow for either a mouse click or the `ENTER` key over it (if previously tabbed to); so, just for handling of the selection, there will be a `selectedUser` variable initialised to a `null` value. 

There will also be a new method, `selectUser`, that is triggered by the button. This new method shall have one argument, which is the `data-intra42Login` I previously defined. [Vue's resources on event handling](https://v2.vuejs.org/v2/guide/events.html?redirect=true#Method-Event-Handlers) was quite handy.

```html
<button
  class="bg-green-400"
  v-for="(r, i) in aresults"
  :key="i"
  :data-Intra42Login="r.Intra42Login"
  v-on:click="selectUser(r.Intra42Login)"
>
  Intra Login: {{ r.Intra42Login }}
  <br />
  First Name: {{ r.FirstName }}
  <br />
  Last Name: {{ r.LastName }}
</button>
```

The `selectUser` method is quite simple; it just takes the `Intra42Login` variable and updates the `selectedUser` component variable accordingly. 

As it is, this variable is being updated; the next step is reflecting the changes on the layout.

### Making stuff happen!

Now, this is where it gets trickier, because there are many moving parts at once. 

As soon as we get the desired user information, many things should happen at once: the search component disappears, and the user information component appears in its place. It should also be easy to go the other way around.

So, to make it a little more clear: there's the **Users** view (a webpage, say), which will host two components: **SearchUser**, and **ShowUser** (maybe it should be UserSearch and UserShow?). Whenever one is visible, the other is not. Before any serious progress, I'll refactor the **ShowUser** part: it is currently *hard-coded*, let's say, onto the **Users** view. It's much more sane to make it a component by itself.

### After the refactoring...

The structure is now akin to 

```
Users
  SearchUser
  ShowUser
```

where these two components will act upon a variable defined in `Users`. It appears, however, that all variables are being defined in `SearchUser`; this calls for a more sophisticated solution.

*the following was written on* bocals-iMac, *at 15:22:35*.

After reading some documentation, I think I'm ready to tackle this. The variable `selectedUser` will be defined in `Users`, and will then be updated with emitting an event on the child component `SearchUser`.

## The resulting code!

As it is, the child component is emitting the username to the parent component. Here's how I made it work:

### on the child component:

- Declared `emits: ["IntraLogin"],` under the `export` options (along with `data`, `mounted`, etc.);
- Defined a method that will handle the emission on the variable:
```vue
emitLogin(intraLogin) {
  this.$emit('IntraLogin', intraLogin)
```
- Made the button react accordingly: `v-on:click="emitLogin(r.Intra42Login)"`;

### on the parent component:

- Declared the component as such: `<searchUser @IntraLogin="selectedUser = $event"/>`

Hopefully this was useful in making some sense of what's happening!

## And...what now? 🤔

As of now, the `selectedUser` variable is served, as a prop, to the child `ShowUser`. Luckily, it seems very reactive! Whenever the child `SearchUser` updates it, the `ShowUser` component will also update it. So the next step is to trigger the hiding of one component whenever the other is active.

I mean...this was not *too* hard.

```html
<searchUser v-if="selectedUser == null" @IntraLogin="selectedUser = $event"/>
<showUser v-else :intraUsername="selectedUser"/>
```

It works quite well! 🥳

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

