---
title: Day 57 - Fixing some emissions! 📡
date: 2022-03-31
description: Getting these tags over with... 
tags: vue, c++
---

# {{ $page.title }}

*the following was written on* bocals-iMac, *at 10:35:50*.

My mornings are still somewhat shaky, but it has been getting better!

## Emitting up! 🚀

As soon as the emits are handled, then all that is left to this is handling the cosmetic parts for good. This is very easy, but I wonder what could be the standard for naming emitted variables — there are a lot of moving parts. There's the variable on the child component, the emit event name, the variable on the parent component...it can get messy.

## That's done! You're so productive, Alex! 😻

Yeah, thanks. The filter is working properly, and now we need to change the color of the tags as to signal they're selected; otherwise it gets messy too.

The tag elements are being rendered with a `v-for` loop.

```html
<div
  v-for="tagElement in allTags"
  class="tag"
  @click="activateTag(tagElement);changeTagColor(tagElement)"
  :data-tag="tagElement.InnerHTML"
>
  <li>{{ tagElement }}</li>
</div>
```

I forgot why I placed a `:data-tag` in there; it seems quite useless now, more so with the following code change: I bound the `id` of each element to the `tagElement` variable, with `v-bind:id="tagElement"`. The `changeTagColor` can just change the color of the tag back and forth!

```js
changeTagColor(tagElement) {
  let elem = document.getElementById(tagElement);
  if (this.selectedTags.includes(tagElement)) {
	elem.style["color"] = "white";
	elem.style["background"] = "var(--accentColor)";
  } else {
	elem.style["color"] = "#d9ffd2";
	elem.style["background"] = "#383737";
  }
},
```

notice how I used a `var(--accentColor)` there; `accentColor` is defined on a theme I'm using and it is better practice to resort to these, as the theme changes according to whether dark mode is active or not. So to avoid querying whether it is active or not, one can just use these variables which will change accordingly. So I dove deep into `node_modules/vuepress-theme-default-prefers-color-scheme/styles/index.styl`, where all of these are defined, and just had a go at figuring out some cool colors for the tags (the white theme is horrendous!).

Turns out it is not so easy to define new colors on that file, so I ended up defining some `:root` elements on the components. At the moment, there are duplicate CSS styles for both parent and child components — I'll get around to inheritance...eventually.

## It is done! (except for some CSS optimisation...) 🥳

Well, I'm calling it a day (or a couple of!) on this particular goal. The tags work, and they filter appropriately, but the style is still a little far from what I envisioned. That's okay, though, as I'll be moving my focus elsewhere for now.

# And now, for another thing entirely...

*the following was written on* arpaeden, *at 14:47:33*.

I have to start with c++ *eventually*, so it might as well be today. I'll be following [this tutorial](https://www.cplusplus.com/doc/oldtutorial) for a start, and will document everything that strikes me as odd or interesting along the way.

42 requires compilation to be done using `c++` with a bunch of flags, so I aliased `c++ft='c++ -Wall -Wextra -Werror -std=c++98'` — this will save a lot of trouble in the forthcoming exercises. And I made Hello World! Yay.

```c++
  string mystring;
  mystring = "This is the initial string content";
  cout << mystring << endl;
```

I suppose `endl` is just a fancy way of appending a newline to the string? A quick search says *kinda*, because it also flushes the stream. No idea, but I don't care for now.

::: tip whoa, the comma operator! (this is kinda crazy!)

For example, the following code:
`a = (b=3, b+2);`
would first assign the value 3 to `b`, and then assign `b+2` to variable `a`. So, at the end, variable `a` would contain the value 5 while variable `b` would contain value 3.
:::

One can concatenate strings to standard output with 

```c++
cout << "Hello, I am " << age << " years old and my zipcode is " << zipcode;
```

For standard input, 

```c++
int age;
cin >> age;
```

(although this seems terribly incomplete! The page says it relies on the user inputting the correct information — as always, with C-like languages...)

Another fancy trick: 

```c++
cin >> a >> b;
```
is equivalent to:
```c++
cin >> a;
cin >> b;
```

And apparently there's a `stringstream` function that allows for safer behaviour when parsing strings to integers.

```c++
string mystr ("1204");
int myint;
stringstream(mystr) >> myint;
```

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

