---
title: Day 59 - More on c++ classes! 
date: 2022-04-03
description: Overloading operators, and stuff.
tags: c++
---

# {{ $page.title }}

*the following was written on* lardafada, *at 11:57:05*.

Yeah...day is starting late. I don't need to do much today, so I plan on just handling a few more chapters of this tutorial.

## Operator overloading 

One of my favourite things in classes is to overload operators. Since classes can introduce wholly new data types and methods, it might make sense to assign new meanings to the plus sign, or the minus sign, or, really, any other operator in the language. I've done this in Python before, and c++ also supports the feature (and had, most likely, done it much earlier).

The syntax for overloading operators is:

```c++
 type operator sign (parameters) { /*... body ...*/ }
 ```

 where `operator` is a keyword, and `sign` gets substituted by whatever symbol one plans to overload.

 This is an example of overloading the plus sign operator:

 ```c++
 
class CVector {
  public:
    int x,y;
    CVector () {};
    CVector (int a,int b) : x(a), y(b) {}
    CVector operator + (const CVector&);
};

CVector CVector::operator+ (const CVector& param) {
  CVector temp;
  temp.x = x + param.x;
  temp.y = y + param.y;
  return temp;
}
```

this syntax definition is, however, quite messy — more on that in a bit. It can now be used as 

```c++
c = a + b;
c = a.operator+ (b);
```

where the first syntax seems much, much more pleasing. There's quite a distinction between member funcions and non-member functions, but it doesn't seem to be too important.

```c++
class CVector {
  public:
    int x,y;
    CVector () {}
    CVector (int a, int b) : x(a), y(b) {}
};


CVector operator+ (const CVector& lhs, const CVector& rhs) {
  CVector temp;
  temp.x = lhs.x + rhs.x;
  temp.y = lhs.y + rhs.y;
  return temp;
}
```

This definition is much more pleasing — at least makes a little more sense in the context of a binary operation like addition.

### Static members

This is a cool feature that only with a little more difficulty can be implemented in Python. According to the website, `A static data member of a class is also known as a "class variable", because there is only one common variable for all the objects of that same class, sharing the same value: i.e., its value is not different from one object of this class to another.` This can be quite useful in setting up counters for class objects, for example; I guess counters in general make sense.

## Moving on, moving on...

The tutorial still has some more content on templates, but I'll skip that for now and move onto a new exercise. In this new exercise, one must set up a very crappy PhoneBook that handles Contacts — very simple structures that have a few fields to fill. Since this time around I will be setting up some classes and methods, I wonder what the best practice is with regard to the use of header files and what-not. 

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
