---
title: Day 58.5 - Keeping the forward momentum going ↗️
date: 2022-04-04
description: c++ hasn't been much fun so far!
tags: c++
---

# {{ $page.title }}

*the following was written on* lardafada, *at 15:07:03*.

With regard to c++, I try to motivate myself thinking that someday I might be able to contribute to open source projects: it seems like many of those are written in this language. But it is so verbose, and feels somewhat clunky; plus, I am not being particularly organised about my programming endeavours, losing focus too often and feeling lost just as much. So I wonder if I could make all of these exercises test-driven? 

I think there are a handful of testing frameworks for c++; I went with [Cpputest](https://cpputest.github.io/) because the alternative had the word Google in it. Yes. I am mature, and make well-informed decisions.

## So, how does this work?

### The structure

Devise a folder structure of `inc` for header files, `src` for `.cpp` files and `tests`, which is very self-explanatory — this is the template for a small project.

For a quick exercise, I'll just create a function that returns the "Hello, World!" string — nothing too fancy, nor creative.

```c++
#include "simpleProgram.h"

std::string helloWorld () 
{
	return "Hello, World!";
}
```

On the `tests` directory, we'll place two files. A `main.cpp`, which houses an instruction to run all the tests,

```c++
#include "CppUTest/CommandLineTestRunner.h"

int main(int ac, char** av)
{
    return CommandLineTestRunner::RunAllTests(ac, av);
}
```

### Tests content

and a `tests.cpp` module, which will have the proper tests. It follows a simple structure:

```c++
TEST_GROUP(FirstTestGroup)
{
};

TEST(FirstTestGroup, FirstTest)
{
	string result = helloWorld();
    STRCMP_EQUAL("Hello, World!", result);
}
```

to add more tests, one must only add another `TEST` with the group as the first parameter, and a name for the test on the second parameter. Neat!

### Making...a makefile

This Cpputest needs proper linking of some libraries, and for that we make a specific makefile just to run the tests.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

