---
title: Day 60 - Getting acquainted with Makefiles! 🥡
date: 2022-04-08
description: Because I suppose I need this in my life.
tags: c++, Makefile
---

# {{ $page.title }}

I think I get makefiles, except for some parts which I do not understand. As with everything in life, really, which will for sure follow this formula. As of now, I need to have a proper grasp on it to implement the testing c++ framework; I want to finally be able to understand esoteric looking stuff like `OBJS:= $(SRCS:%.cpp=$(DIR_O)/%.o)`, and how to make it recompile only changed dependencies. It must not be impossible, right? So I'm following [this tutorial](https://makefiletutorial.com/), and jumping into some GNU documentation rabbitholes. 🐰 

## Some stuff to remember later

### Definition of a rule 📏
I'm quoting very early in the GNU documentation. About rules,

::: tip Definition of rules
A rule appears in the makefile and says when and how to remake certain files, called the rule’s targets (most often only one per rule). It lists the other files that are the prerequisites of the target, and the recipe to use to create or update the target.
:::

This is important, because my compilation will usually recompile all the dependencies, even though the source code might have not changed.

Plus, we have that `The criterion for being out of date is specified in terms of the prerequisites, which consist of file names separated by spaces. A target is out of date if it does not exist or if it is older than any of the prerequisites (by comparison of last-modification times). `

### What's a Phony? 🤡

Now, phony is not just a light insult on frauds; it is a special way to declare that a target doesn't necessarily generate a file. This is useful, since Makefiles check whether the prerequisites of a file are newer than the target; it avoids running the rule otherwise. The GNU documentation has a great example on a `clean` rule, that removes object files (and has no prerequisites). If there is a file named `clean`, the rule will never run — since there are no prerequisites, and the target file *exists*, `make` will skip its execution. Funny stuff!

```makefile
.PHONY: clean
clean:
	rm *.o temp
```

### Static patterns, or *am I smart enough to understand this?* 🤔

So we get to the crux of Makefiles for me. Here follows the syntax of static patterns:

```
targets …: target-pattern: prereq-patterns …
        recipe
        …
``` 

And, quoting directly from the [GNU documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Static-Pattern),

*Each pattern normally contains the character ‘%’ just once. When the target-pattern matches a target, the ‘%’ can match any part of the target name; this part is called the stem. The rest of the pattern must match exactly. For example, the target foo.o matches the pattern ‘%.o’, with ‘foo’ as the stem. The targets foo.c and foo.out do not match that pattern.*

*The prerequisite names for each target are made by substituting the stem for the ‘%’ in each prerequisite pattern. For example, if one prerequisite pattern is %.c, then substitution of the stem ‘foo’ gives the prerequisite name foo.c. It is legitimate to write a prerequisite pattern that does not contain ‘%’; then this prerequisite is the same for all targets.*

Well, so far so good. In the following example, there's some use of the [automatic variables](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Automatic-Variables). `$<` and `$@`, which will hold the name of the prerequisite and the name of the target, respectively.

```
objects = foo.o bar.o

all: $(objects)

$(objects): %.o: %.c
        $(CC) -c $(CFLAGS) $< -o $@
```

## So, what am I doing right now?

After ensuring Cpputest is working [with the help of a nice Makefile](http://sweet.ua.pt/pf/2019/02/25/putting-cpputest-to-work.html), it is time to try and compile my own — using my own Makefile, too 😬 Here's the directory I'm working at

```
├── Makefile
├── obj
├── src
│   └── simpleProgram.cpp
└── tests
    ├── main.cpp
    └── tests.cpp
```

And here's my Makefile, so far:

```makefile
CC		=	g++
CFLAGS	=	-Wall -Wextra -Werror -std=c++98

SRCDIR = ./src
OBJDIR = ./obj

SRCS =  simpleProgram.cpp
OBJS = $(SRCS:%.cpp=$(OBJDIR)/%.o)

all: 	$(OBJS)
	$(CC) -o $(OBJS)

$(OBJDIR)/%.o: %.cpp
	$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -o $@ -c $<

.PHONY: all
```

I don't think I've ever dedicated so much attention to a Makefile before; looking back into previous Makefiles on my projects...they're quite nasty. So there are a few important things to establish: I'd like it not to recompile the source files (`.cpp`) unless needed (and thus, I need to use object files), and I want to keep it simple too.

There's a nice trick to build the `OBJS`: it will be a list built upon whatever the `SRCS` is, applying a (static?) pattern. But whenever I try to `make`, there's the following error:

`make: *** No rule to make target 'obj/simpleProgram.o', needed by 'all'.  Stop.`

It took me quite a while to understand what was happening; it seems like it goes into the `all` rule, then jumps into the `$(OBJS)` dependency and tries resolving how to build `obj/simpleProgram.o`; but the rule to build it asks for a `%.cpp` dependency, *which is not found*: because all `.cpp` files lie inside the `SRCDIR`. So, with a small adjustment to that rule, `$(OBJDIR)/%.o: %.cpp`, ...it finally works! 👯‍♀️

## Yay! And what now?

Well, `simpleProgram.cpp` is *indeed* a very simple program

```c++
#include <iostream>

std::string helloWorld () 
{
	std::string str = "Hello, World!";
	return str;
}
```

but I want to ensure this function returns the `"Hello, World!"` string. So I think I need a header file to declare the function? So, here it is, created as `inc/simpleProgram.h`.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

std::string helloWorld ();
```

That probably was very undeserving of all our attention. So the Makefile has evolved into 

```makefile
CC		=	g++
CPPFLAGS	=	-Wall -Wextra -Werror -std=c++98

# CppUtest
CPPUTEST_HOME = /usr/local/Cellar/cpputest/4.0
CPPFLAGS += -I$(CPPUTEST_HOME)/include
CXXFLAGS += -include $(CPPUTEST_HOME)/include/CppUTest/MemoryLeakDetectorNewMacros.h
CFLAGS += -include $(CPPUTEST_HOME)/include/CppUTest/MemoryLeakDetectorMallocMacros.h
LD_LIBRARIES = -L$(CPPUTEST_HOME)/lib -lCppUTest -lCppUTestExt

SRCDIR = src
HDRDIR = inc
OBJDIR = obj
TESTSRCDIR = tests
TESTOBJDIR = objtests

TESTS = tests.cpp
TESTMAIN = $(TESTSRCDIR)/main.cpp
SRCS =  simpleProgram.cpp
OBJS = $(SRCS:%.cpp=$(OBJDIR)/%.o)
TESTOBJS = $(TESTS:%.cpp=$(TESTOBJDIR)/%.o)

all: 	$(OBJS)
	$(CC) $(OBJS)

test: 
	$(CC) $(OBJS) $(LD_LIBRARIES) $(TESTOBJS) $(TESTMAIN) -o test

$(TESTOBJDIR)/%.o: $(TESTSRCDIR)/%.cpp
	$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -I $(HDRDIR) -o $@ -c $<

$(OBJDIR)/%.o: $(SRCDIR)/%.cpp
	$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -I $(HDRDIR) -o $@ -c $<

.PHONY: all test 
```

Now, it is quite obvious that the last two rules could somehow be simplified — they are, after all, running the same commands. I'll get to it eventually. Premature optimisation is, after all, something one should want to avoid!

And the tests are working! For some reason, the test for the string equality needed a little trick,

```cpp
	std::string result = helloWorld();
	const char* p = result.c_str();
    STRCMP_EQUAL("Hello, World!", p);
```

but other than that, all is good. So I can now, *finally*, move onto solving the exercises!

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
