---
title: Day 61 - Back on track, in Lisbon! 🐌
date: 2022-04-11
description: Devising a plan, or something?
tags: musings, vue
---

*the following was written on* bocals-iMac, *at 10:13:50*.

# {{ $page.title }}

One thing that still bugs me with this blog is how frequently I must track back to finish a previous day's entry. Whole subjects might get abruptly trimmed by one of the great many circumstances of life, and that is *not good*. So I'm thinking every blog post should have something akin to a boolean flag, indicating whether that particular daily endeavour was properly accounted for.
This would be useful for the previous post, for example, which was cut off without any decent conclusion — and even a way to keep track of posts lineage (day X following day Y) would be good!

Ah, plenty of ideas. Let's see about all that! I'll make a to-do note on this (to-do notes, in fact, should be automated as well).

## Changing url upon page loading on `vue-router` 💨

### Checking the documentation for the changes 📚

This has been an issue on the Vue project for a while: inside the view which selects different student profiles, the URL never changes. This is bad, because it won't allow for the intuitive *backward motion* in the browser's history.

A brief ducking ([hehe 🦆](https://duckduckgo.com)) reveals some informative documentation on [Dynamic Route Matching](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/essentials/dynamic-matching.html). It seems like the example is a total fit on my case (`we may have a User component which should be rendered for all users but with different user IDs`); it does, however, call for checking whether my `vue-router` setup is proper, too — it has been a long while since we implemented it in the project.

As it is, this is the setup:

```vue
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import router from './router'

createApp(App).use(router).mount('#app')
```

where `./router` goes for another file, which defines the `routes` object.

```vue
const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    name: 'Dashboard',
    component: Home
  },
  {
    path: '/users',
    name: 'Users',
    component: Users
  },
  {
    path: '/logs',
    name: 'Logs',
    component: Logs
  },
]
```

The documentation offers the following example:

```vue
const User = {
  template: '<div>User</div>',
}

// these are passed to `createRouter`
const routes = [
  // dynamic segments start with a colon
  { path: '/users/:id', component: User },
]
```

thus, I imported the component, defining the route along the way:

```js
  {
	path: "/users/:id",
    name: "showUser",
    component: showUser,
  },
```

now, this component is having its `id` (the user, in this case) passed as a prop from another View. Since this task is being delegated to the router instance, there's some refactoring to do. Both the `User` view and the `showUser` view need changes; I'll handle the latter first, because I need to check whether the browser history is adapting properly.

### Adapting the component to receive params from `vue-router` 🧳

Since the route was defined with the `:id` param, I'm expecting to be able to expose it using the `$route.params` variable. So, a quick injection of 

```html
  <h3 class="text-4xl my-5 font-semibold">User Information</h3>
  {{ $route.params }}
  <div class="flex flex-row">
	  ...
  </div>
```

allows for checking that, indeed, entering `/users/testUser` will display `testUser` as a variable corresponding to `id`. This is good!

There's another issue, though, which stems from my lacking (but slowly improving!) knowledge of Vue: I can access `$route.params` on the template, but all my template code relies on the `intraUsername` variable (which is a prop). So, I know I can (literally) change all occurences of X to Y, but it seems a better practice to handle the `$route.params` outside of the template — thus, on the scripting part. In other words, I want to keep `intraUsername` as it is.

```js
created() {
	this.intraUsername = this.$route.params.id;
}
```

It feels so good to *finally* feel confident with Vue. The `created()` function, as defined in the `<script></script>` body, will run code after the component is created. One can learn more about these special functions with the [Vue component lifecycle hooks documentation](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/lifecycle.html#registering-lifecycle-hooks). And this works, without changing much of the code!

### Adapting the parent component to send params with `vue-router` 👨‍👩‍👦

Now this is going to be trickier. My `Users` view actually just renders one component or the other; but this can change, as the `showUser` doesn't rely on props anymore, and I could instead just have `searchUser` as a "main" view and discard this one altogether.

```html
<template>
  <h1 class="text-5xl my-5 font-semibold">Users</h1>
  <div class="users_parent">
    <searchUser v-if="selectedUser == null" @selectUsername="selectedUser = $event"/>
    <showUser v-else @clearUsername="selectedUser = null" :intraUsername="selectedUser"/>
  </div>
</template>
```

`searchUser`, on the other hand, renders every search result as a button that, upon clicking, emits the desired user to the parent component;

```vue
    <button
      class="bg-green-400"
      v-for="(r, i) in aresults"
      :key="i"
      :data-Intra42Login="r.Intra42Login"
      v-on:click="emitLogin(r.Intra42Login)"
    >
```

If `searchUser` gets to be the main page, then all that's needed is to apply a routing on button click. This will greatly simplify the code!

Again, it feels more natural to modify `searchUser` first. Just changing it to

```vue
  v-on:click="this.$router.push({ name: 'showUser', params: { id: r.Intra42Login} })"
```

will do the trick. *Is Vue easy?! 🤯*

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
