---
title: Day 71 - My experience at 42Lisboa 🏫
date: 2022-05-24
description: A (hopefully brief) testimony on my stay at the school.
tags: musings, 42
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Well, well, well: a writing of this sort has been overdue. As you know — or, frankly, might not, given how sparsely has this blog been updated — I've been both studying at, and nowalso working with **42Lisboa**. As a matter of fact, I was one of the first candidates to do the *piscine* (October '20, more on that in a little bit); did oficially start the cursus in early February of '21; and did also, at some point along the journey, transition into being a *lifeguard* at the institution (more on that in a bit, too). So time flies, and it's been almost a year and a half since my moving out to Lisbon; not only that, but **42Porto** is soon materialising — and my own relocationing to Porto following suit —, which introduces a lovely opportunity to both reminisce and digress about the experience so far.

### What was before, Alex? (or, *bonus credit introduction for those really invested in my storytelling*).

I distinctly remember the general state of affairs before this spell in Lisbon began: there was a struggle with my university degree (Bachelor in Maths), where I was as close to finishing the course as I was enthusiastic about pursuing another couple of months of intense cramming and zigzagging among books, and some other authorities, on Partial Differential Equations (and to be clear: not much enthusiasm abound, alas). The pandemic had been raving and raging around the country for the better part of the previous five months, and the sudden change in environment (away from presential classes, and closer to nature, with *plenty of free time*) led me, as with many, to reconsider my life choices.

To be fair, my interest in programming had shown a little earlier than that — at some latter point in the whole of the seven years that my college education spanned, I attended a couple of classes in C programming and dabbled in some Python exercises — but only then, in mid March of '20, did the world as we knew appear to crumble, and allow for the uninterested exploration in the field, day after day after day, as Spring blossomed around and time seemed infinite (remember: we were under lockdown).

These months came to be of the most productive, prolific, happier, meaningful I had ever had so far. Having my computer as companion, I set out to devise [a new cyberhome for a pet project](https://bzzzzz.buzz) and soon found myself looking at job listings, or further education opportunities, in the tech field. Jolly times! At some point there were talks with one particular company, and even a couple of interviews, which led me to believe I had struck the path of employment in one of Portugal's tech unicorns. It did not work out as such — in hindsight, not as unfortunately as I had believed back then — but I did, on the very same day, learn about a new educational project, with no teachers nor classes nor fees nor schedules, which seemed both very much up my alley and too good, too really really good, to be true.

## What 42 is all about 🗺️

After signing up on the platform, I took a couple of days to learn about the 42 project. It started in France, back in 2012, and has now expanded to upwards of fifty schools around the world. The model is the same wherever: no teachers and no classes, relying instead on the students ability to collaborate among themselves in the pursuit of knowledge. Students get evaluated by their peers; one proceeds as slow, or fast, as desired. I was still under the impression this was slightly bonkers, really. So after a couple of days, I took a chance on the two online tests required for starting the enrollment process.

The first one was very straightforward and short — very akin to the Simon Says memory game, where one must quickly memorise a pattern and reproduce it. Almost like a glorified *captcha*. But the second one, though...the second one gets serious *pretty fast*. It is presented as a sort of logic game where one must provide some instructions to a spaceship, which must get from start to finish. The instructions are very, very similar to what any imperative programming language would look like (do this, do that, loop here, finish then), and of course it helped to be exposed to that sort of logic before. But rest assured: **the tests — and the cursus — are designed with the utter novice in mind.**

Soon after the confirmation email hit the inbox — I had passed! — and was thus invited to come and presentially visit the campus.

## Checking in with the campus 🏫

I'm not sure how long after did I spend a day and night in Lisbon — probably just a couple of weeks after? I scheduled an Airbnb in the Mouraria zone — and ha, what a fun night that was! — to cap off the afternoon spent at the campus, which sits between the lively Rua Morais Soares (where I'd later live) and the hilly Penha de França. And it was, indeed, *too good* — unbelievable good, really!

The school finds itself inside what was once some sort of industrial building, with lots of open, wide spaces; there's a lounge with some table tennis, a piano, and plenty of cozy couches where some naps were had; and above that, two clusters of perfectly aligned computers, amounting to three hundred or so, free to the use (and mild abuse!) of any student, at any of the 24 hours of the day (the campus really is open 24/7 — one can come it to work anytime!). On top of it all, there are two pantries to prepare meals, plenty of individual, sound-proof study rooms, and a breathtaking rooftop that puts many Lisbon sunset parties to shame — a place where both the morning and the setting sun are great companions to yoga practices. Take my word for it!

I didn't sleep too well that night. I grant that Mouraria is not exactly the quietest neighbourhood in the city, but my mind was hopelessly pedalling back and forth in a river of excitement: could it be that, for once, I had found a place which did not impose its schedule, its set way of doing things, instead allowing for more freedom of planning and execution, where one could (and would!) follow the lead of their inner rhythm?

## Scheduling the piscine — and what's that all about, really? 🏊

As soon as one does the check-in after passing the tests, a set of dates present themselves to pursue the last test before enrolling in the school. This is the ultimate cotton test, if you will: twenty-six consecutive days, with no less than 150 peers (!) at all sides around, fostering a very special spirit not of competition but cooperation in tackling the school's course. Behold, the *piscine*!

What one finds, from the first day until the last, is a set of carefully devised challenges, with an accompanying carefully devised set of provided information. And off you go, really, in the pursuit of knowledge! You read, you learn, you try, you fail — many times, indeed... —, and, *eventually*... you'll strike success. It *is tough*; but, too, very rewarding. Again I state: the whole *piscine* experience is designed with the utter novice in mind (of course it helped, in my particular case, to be acquainted with C, Unix, the shell, etc. — but there were many, many cases of fellow peers having no prior experience in that and getting along just fine). 

I think all official communication from the school will recommend that one undertakes the piscine full-time; ie., without any other responsability that would rival it in time spent. And while it certainly won't hurt to have it so, in many cases — such as mine, and many other students — that is not possible. And if you do find yourself in that position, *do not fret* — it is definitely not impossible to make it through the piscine in those circumstances. But keep one thing in mind: although you certainly can work and learn from home, you'd do yourself a disservice by not interacting **heavily** with your peers — they benefit just as much as you do! Also, every evaluation, whether it is each project's evaluation or the weekly exam (every Friday from 6pm onwards; last exam from 10am onwards), **must occur presentially**. This is non-negotiable.

**And what does exactly the piscine test?** Now, that's the million dollar question whose answer is definitely not set in stone. I'd say it tests not only one's programming ability, but more so one's **ability to learn**; it is also indirectly testing one's social skills — because the piscine is, ultimately, a *very social experience* — and resilience, too — because *it can get quite stressful*. And as for the latter part, let me make it perfectly clear: I don't believe in stressful learning or working environments. The *piscine* is not, by itself only, necessarily stressful; but it certainly does require special care and handling, and that is why I would recommend **eight hours of sleep**, **regular exercise** and **healthy eating**. Let's not glorify bad habits, please!

## The calming of the tides 🌊

After the *piscine* ends...you rest. For quite a while. If all went accordingly to plan, there were lots of project submissions — and not all passed... —, *some* exams were taken and finished, you now carry *some* knowledge of programming (and C in particular), and there's hopefully enthusiasm with regard to being a proper student at the 42 School. The last part of the admission process is *to wait* a week or so for the results to come in. 

These statistics are *sort of* public: for any given piscine, usually a third will give on their own initiative — because this learning model is not for everyone, and not everyone really wants to be a programmer; *both cases are absolutely fine!* —, and then from the remaining roughly half gets in the school. If by any chance you fail the admission process, you can retake the *piscine* after a year has passed (although you only get two chances at doing the *piscine* — so please do up the effort on the second try!).

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

