---
title: Day 66 - A tough week - but still onto SICP!
date: 2022-07-31
description: Handling burnouts, and still ploughing through 🚜
tags: musings, emacs, scheme
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Well. This past week was terrible. Terrible as in: I don't quite remember when I had such a week like this one. The overall feeling was that of being overwhelmed and burdened; with barely any time to think, or live my own life. It was, definitely, too much. In retrospect, I can understand *a couple of factors* that definitely played into it, but I neither have a way to prevent it from happening again, nor a cure for whenever it (hopefully not inevitably) happens again. It was a terribly unhappy feeling. Miserable even.

With regards to programming, I'm taking it easy now. What happened was directly (but not totally) correlated with my current professional situation - and the fact that I do code for a living - and I feel, in a way, displeased. Many reasons at play here, but there's a general feeling of *stagnation*. It's very frustrating. On the other hand, I think I tend to compare myself with all the great programmers out there, everywhere, while knowing fully well I don't quite have what it takes to be at their level. Whether that is a strong grasp on fundamentals, or a disciplined self to handle higher workloads, or higher thinking. It's okay, I suppose.

In any case, I'm still taking [Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/sarabander/sicp-pdf/master/sicp.pdf) as my main occupation right now. I heard so many good things about this book that I figured I might as well try to take it all the way. It won't be easy - and the temptation to skim through it, instead of deep diving into *every* exercise, is definitely real - but I'm still around it, I suppose.

The internet [(or at least the particular subset of the internet I usually partake in)](https://hn.algolia.com/?q=sicp) praises it highly - if you're not aware of the book, or its relevance, then maybe you ought to check it out as well? I suppose I'd like to better myself as a programmer - maybe even as a *computer scientist*. I like beautiful ideas. And then, I eventually want to explore functional programming more seriously. It seems fun - more fun than what I'm having now.

I suppose that is it for today. All is well - don't fret too much.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

