---
title: Day 71 - A statement of intention (and more Scheme)
date: 2022-08-31
description: I've been keeping at it. I swear.
tags: musings, planning, scheme, lisp, bzzzzz
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Ah. It's nice that I still come coming back to this blog every once in a while; such a nice way to keep track of the some many things I'm tackling all at once — and it actually gives me some sense of progress.

I've been taking some breaks these last couple of weeks. Most of the time I finding myself solving (some smaller, some bigger, and some just time-sensitive) problems at 42, and also sort of every day in the week. In all honesty, I say and confess *it being quite fun*, but often it so happens for me to lose track of time and to have been dutying for more than eight hours: a very exhausting affair. I'm learning to delegate and prioritise, however, which I think are two best tools of the trade to whoever desires to be **just less busy**.

(I jest, but just a little.)

Here are a couple of loose ideas from this past period.

### It seems like a custom keyboard could be interesting.

This affair has been triggered by some reads on Hacker News: very often — althought I suppose I'm now also more keen on the subject — there are interesting articles about layouts, experiments, and more. I keep my interest not necessarily because I am looking to improve my productivity (I mean, *I already use vim* and am very opinionated on the matter), but also regarding the ergonomics. Just try this out very quickly: widen the shoulders and elbows right now, as if you could split your keyboard in two. Doesn't it feel *better*? Slighly more comfortable at least? I'm eager to try it out, and, of course, there's much more to it: one can in fact experiment wildly with the disposition of the keys, their feedback and whatnot. We spend a lot of time with keyboards. 

(if this wasn't enough of a convincing: [I think the Moonlander is among the most exciting things I've seen online](https://www.zsa.io/moonlander/)).

### A step-up on streaming.

Very often I find myself wondering about the best equipment to stream my audio. There's a great Mac app (Rogue Amoeba's Audio Hijack) which really is a great piece of software, and it both mixes, records and streams my broadcasts. I know it is not, realistically, too hard to do — it just juggles some sources and passes through some filters — but I just now realised how much easier, and possibly interesting, it would be to just mix everything on *my* website: broadcasting three or four different channels which could then be mixed at will from the end-user.

I think Icecast can do this effortlessly, and it should be a good exercise. 

### More on Scheme.

I'm not necessarily too advanced on SICP, but this has been the steadiest I've ever been with it; the exercises are good and they're quite fun challenges. I think my biggest issue right now is assembling a proper debug routine, and roughening the edges of some of my code. Currently doing 2.29.

<FetchComments :title=$frontmatter.title />
<PostComments :title=$frontmatter.title />

