---
title: Day 1 - some C and some Vue, but not much progress...
date: 2021-10-29
description: Sometimes you don't love the code you make, and that should be fine? 😩
---

# {{ $page.title }}

### Today's achievements ⬇️
- got reacquainted the [dreaded C project](./cub3d.pdf) I must finish *soon*;
- updated this blog's Vuepress build to the latest stable (1.8.2);
- handled a pull request from a very enthusiastic programmer!... 🥳
- ...but broke the production code with it. 😩

# Vue is still very confusing! 🤔

Yesterday I managed to get the website running in a breeze (fyi, it is deployed on the Vercel platform) and had planned to get some CSS styling done for today. It was easy to find some good documentation and tutorials (exhibit [one](https://petedavis.dev/fun-things-you-can-do-in-vuepress-markdown/#_2-class-and-style-bindings) and [two](https://v1.vuejs.org/guide/class-and-style.html)), but it was never really close to working. As a workaround to direct CSS styling on the markdown files, I thought about making each page a Vue component - but that feels very against the purpose of having the Vuepress framework in the first place.

So, of course, I'd like to understand how to produce proper page styling. Maybe for tomorrow? Also, a shout-out to [Charles Ouellet](https://snipcart.com/blog/vuepress-tutorial-vuejs-documentation) for his great tutorial on getting a simple blog running on Vue!

# The C project really is a pain 🩸

Some context: as a school assignment, I'm supposed to build a raycaster akin to the one that powered the early [Wolfenstein and Doom games](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHIpl2cKw1U). The results of the algorithm are always very impressive, but the process is...*dreary*, at best. As someone who is not particularly enthusiastic about graphics development, it feels a little pointless and an unnecessary side-step - plus, it's too close to math for my taste.

Today was mostly about getting reacquainted with all the existing codebase (it's been a whole month from my last commit), and tomorrow I'm hoping for some [reassuring baby steps in the algorithm](https://lodev.org/cgtutor/raycasting.html).

# There's something so endearing about pull requests and Open Source! 🌎

It was certainly due to Hacktoberfest, but [our small Discord bot](https://github.com/protsaq/42discord_bot) attracted a pull request from a very interested individual. Althought he could not run the code on his own - due to private token issues -, we managed to get it working, with barely any friction. It was a very interesting process, and it's certainly further motivation to properly document any open issues with the code.

The deployment had, however, some issues - Heroku, where we host the bot, is not properly set up to deal with command-line arguments on deployment. So that is something to fix tomorrow, too.

### And what about tomorrow? ⬇️
- another hour, at least, of the raycasting project;
- further research on the CSS styling (plus a dark-mode would be great! 🕶);
- pick up the Django project (more on that...tomorrow!)
