---
title: Day 2 - further fights with the raycaster 📡
date: 2021-10-30
description: Slow and steady wins the race...or makes the code!
---

# {{ $page.title }}

### Today's achievements ⬇️
- some further progress with the raycaster;
- tackled another chapter on the [**Obey The Testing Goat** book](https://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/book/chapter_explicit_waits_1.html);

# So the raycaster wasn't so bad today... 🥵

...at least until the code *actually runs*. I'm following the raycaster authority in C (Lode V's tutorial), and it has been mostly copying-and-pasting the approach into my code. It's not the most noble way of doing a school assignment - but nobody (sane) would expect an original raycaster implementation. My goals with the project are, first and foremost, not to lose all my will and enthusiasm about coding; secondly, I'd like to have a good, clean, readable implementation of the algorithm. 

# Introducing another one of my projects... 🐍
...combining both Django, a Python web-framework, and TDD - courtesy of **Obey The Testing Goat**. Any query for Python jobs wil yield three or four Django postings for each one of Flask. And since I am somewhat proficient in the latter, this book presented a great opportunity to learn both a very in-demand framework, and also a programming paradigm that ensures sustainable code growth with testing best practices. The book runs on a much older version of Django, but that is not necessarily deterring - at most, some additional quests on the documentation are needed.

To make it a little more challenging, my take on the project deviates from the suggested to-do list: I'm trying to implement something akin to a memory dump, that could extend itself to some sort of personal website amassing random interests and various media. We'll see how that goes in the next couple of days.

# A nice idea for the future! 🌻

This website's main page is still a little dry. In an effort to make it more populated and informative, I was thinking of charting my programming endeavours across all the projects currently being worked on. It could be as easy as parsing all the blog entries for particular keywords, creating categories such as `Javascript`, `Django`, `raycaster`, which could then be grouped between programming languages and projects; some nice plots could be generated afterwards. This weekend has been particularly busy (with another great edition of the [**Festival Semibreve**](https://festivalsemibreve.com/)), but maybe something can arise next week! 

### And for tomorrow... ⬇️
- at least a further hour with the raycaster;
- why not keep up with the Django work?
