---
title: Day 5 - a very busy day, with almost no programming 😩
date: 2021-11-02
description: But even so...IceCast is working!
tags: musings, icecast
---

# {{ $page.title }}

# Daylight Savings - among other things - are breaking my good routines 🌅
These last couple of years were very important in the establishing of good, healthy habits. A regular schedule of sleep, nutritious meals, exercise - it all is tremendously necessary as the backbone for a good life. Slight variations in any of these variables can produce cascading effects; and as soon as one of these foundations is lacking, it all comes crumbling down mercilessly. Suddenly, the 8h-10h hours of reading, coding, peeking around - it seems exhausting and anxiety inducing. 

I'm eager to get back on track again. Not only due to wanting to get stuff done, but to feel motivated, internally validated, and on the right path. It is both amazing - and also very frightening - to be aware of how much the mind is deeply correlated with the body, and how much the perception of *everything* is influenced by that relationship. 

That being said, even this less good day provided some good news!

# IceCast is running, albeit still locally!

A little context, before any technicalities: I'd like to get back at regular radio broadcasts, and all it is missing (for quite a while, now) is having a proper streaming setup. I have never been particularly close to getting it, and no matter how many plunges into DuckDuckGo I take, the answer inevitably leads to IceCast. This streaming protocol needs the installing of a system service, which, maybe a year ago, completely broke my Nginx configuration on the Raspberry Pi. It probably wasn't so bad, but [the website](https://bzzzzzzz.buzz) went down, and I realised how frail my setup really was. Yesterday, however, with the help of the official documentation and [another tutorial](https://stmllr.net/blog/streaming-audio-with-mpd-and-icecast2-on-raspberry-pi/), I got it running on my main workstation!

It didn't take too long to configure - and tomorrow I'll bring further details on next steps.
