---
title: Day 6 - back at it! 💪
date: 2021-11-08
description: getting the hang of the rhythm again...
---

# {{ $page.title }}

### About the long absence... 🌃

When I agreed with past-Alexandre about undertaking the #100DaysOfCode challenge, I was aware that, sometimes, life happens - and hopefully I will take some very personal lessons from *life happening* for almost a whole week. That was not too good, and most of the blame is on past, really-not-on-present Alexandre! 🤫

An hour a day is perfectly doable - regularity is, after all, part of the point of this whole exercise. 

# ...and the whole Icecast situation! 📡

Having a local Icecast broadcast working really was a milestone - but, in hindsight, it feels like it could have been done much sooner. But however excited I might be about the project, the sanest next step would be to encapsulate the whole Raspberry setup in a proper Docker build.

As of now, the Raspberry is responsible for hosting the [bzzzzzzz.buzz](https://bzzzzzzz.buzz) website, and running a torrenting client; since the Micro SD card of the Raspberry is very frail, there is an [external boot protocol](https://raspiserver.com/how-to-boot-from-external-hdd-on-raspberry-pi/) implemented to protect it from failing so often; and there are some services running - `nginx`, `ufw`, `mpd`, etc. - that need to be reinstalled with every incarnation of my server.

So a good first step would be to setup a Docker image on my own computer, and both configure and test it before deployment. Should be fun!

### Resources for further reading 📚
- [How to boot from external HDD on the Raspberry](https://raspiserver.com/how-to-boot-from-external-hdd-on-raspberry-pi/)
- [Make a backup of the Raspberry OS (to have on the external HDD)](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/5427/can-a-raspberry-pi-be-used-to-create-a-backup-of-itself/5492)
