---
title: Day 7 - Back in the office, but short on rhythm.
date: 2021-11-10
description: It should just take a couple of days...right? 🥴
---

# {{ $page.title }}

### Today's achievements:
- Custom snippets are (*finally*) working!
- Fixed part of the Heroku deployment;

# Snippets are (really) working now! ✍️

These last couple of days have been spent doing the transition from `vim` to `NeoVim`. There was no special reason behind this change, other than the plugin ecosystem feeling a little more sane, and resilient to the years passing. It's not a big deal, really, since most of it feels the same. Except for the configurations, of course, because somehow, NeoVim can be a little more confusing than Vim, at least at a first glance. All of the progress made the other day got slightly stuck, because my custom snippets were not stored properly on specific directories. [This link was a tremendous help](https://jdhao.github.io/2019/04/17/neovim_snippet_s1/) and I'm leaving it here for future reference.

And why is this cool? UltiSnips has lots of cool features; for now, I'm just using the basic text placement and placeholder navigation. For now, I'm just really happy typing `main` on a `.c` file, and then tabbing. Feels very good!

# How to undo the to-do? 🤔

Now that I completed an item on the to-do list, the obvious question arises: how would I properly communicate to the server that *the task has been completed*? There are many ways to achieve this. 
- **simply erase it from the table**: as of now, both the table and its content is hardcoded. Not ideal, of course, but at least it is easy to remove stuff.
- **a login page**: this is probably overkill, specially since a quick google didn't necessary yield content I would confidently follow. It may be something to look into for the future?
- **store everything in a file, to be loaded into the front-end**: this has the immediate advantage of removing the hard-coded content, and on the other hand it might put me into tricky Vue situations - and that's good! 

I am assumming the later is the way to go. 

# I need to structure my Vue learning... 📚

So - let's suppose I am 7 days in on the #100DaysOfCode challenge. My Vue has not improved *dramatically*, which is to be expected given how fragmented my attention span has been throughout all the projects. I do feel the planning can be improved, and thus I hereby establish objectives for tomorrow: refactor the to-do list into a file-fetching component (or a Markdown parser component?).
