---
title: Day 8 - Making of a component! 📦
date: 2021-11-11
description: Refactoring of the to-do list, and more...
tags: vue
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Today, I'll be following [**Fullstack Vue 3: The Complete Guide to Vue.js**](https://www.newline.co/vue/), by Hassan Djirdeh, Nate Murray and Ari Learner. A couple months ago, this was my Vue learning resource, and I made it maybe a quarter or a third in. It is good - but I need to make my own notes. Thus, this is an attempt at that.

# Basics of a component in Vue 🌱

In Vue, Components are essential building blocks, that can be utilised across the code. Components can be single files (with a `.vue` extension), encompassing three different contents: the `template`, which contains all HTML structure, the `script`, handling interaction with other components or Javascript implementations (?), and the `style`, containing all the CSS styling for the particular component.

In the case of the to-do list, it will be a component embed in the main page.

```html
<template>
...
</template>

<script>
...
</script>

<style>
...
</style>
```

# Creating a data model for the to-do app

To simplify things, the content of the to-do list will be put in a separate file. 

```js
[
	{
	"description": "transition the list to a proper Vue component",
	"motivation": "eases automation of the to-do list",
	"technologies": "Vue, JS"
	}
]
```

For now, this is the easiest solution. Following the book's first chapter, a Javascript file would be created, containing an array of Javascript objects (very akin to dictionaries in Python); however, I'm not entirely sure how to access Vue's ***Application Instance*** on VuePress. [This website has info on how to render a .json file](https://vuepress-examples.netlify.app/demos/local/), which is exactly what I need, and after slightly adapting the code, a possible solution arises.

```html
<template>
  <table id="to-do">
    <tr v-for="item in items">
      <td> {{item.description}} </td>
      <td> {{item.motivation}} </td>
      <td> {{item.technologies}} </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</template>

<script>
import data from './../../to_do.json'
export default {
  data () {
      return {
          items: data,
	      };
	},
};
</script>
```

This works!

I spent some time debugging, so here are some tips:
- make sure to always check the `console log` of the browser;
- in this case, I implemented the to-do table as a component. VuePress' component path is `.vuepress/components/<ComponentFilename>`. Make sure to use `ComponentFilename` when importing!

As of now, the to-do list is being rendered from an external `.json` file. Not ideal, but better than being 100% hardcoded! 🎉

# A good merge of two projects? 🤔

Sometimes, when I don't have anything else better to do - which is unlikely, because *there's always something slightly better than procrastination* 😋 -, I check Hacker News. And today there was a very good article (linked below!). 

This method is very interesting to me, as I've been chasing the productivity dragon for most part of this year; but its implementation has been eluding me ever since (even after the Org Mode!).

I wonder if the Django project could somehow provide a solid back-end to something fronted by Vue...

### Further reading
- [There's a blog implementation for VuePress!](https://vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/blog-theme.html)
- [Creating a second brain as a software developer 🧠](https://aseemthakar.com/how-to-build-a-second-brain-as-a-software-developer/).

