---
title: Day 9 - Further progress in the Vue book.
date: 2021-11-12
description: Still catching up to where I left off... 🌅
tags: vue
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Today was mostly about helping someone with their Python and getting farther in the Vue book. A nice day! However, during much of writing my own notes about the book, I could not shake yesterday's article off my mind - the one about documenting one's knowledge well. I'm looking forward for an opportunity to further take this exercise forward, and implementing a categorisation/tag system would be nice.

I'm still very excited about *everything* in the computing world, but Vue seems like a strong tool to carry right now. It can assist in developing full-stack projects, and helps strengthen my Javascript chops. 

# Some more Vue content...

## Data Binding - using external data on any component. 🏓

The book progresses further in the notion of **data binding**; it still seems linked to the *application instance* as introduced previously, however. As happened in Python's Jinja2 templates, variables can be passed through *moustache syntax* (eg. ``{ }``), but these "*cannot be used in HTML attributes like href, id, src etc.*". Thus the ``v-bind`` directive is introduced, to be used in cases such as 

```html
<a v-bind:href="submissions[0].url" class="has-text-info">
  {{ submissions[0].title }}
</a>
```

There is another example where the ``v-bind`` is applied in the context of a class, with a conditional. This seems useful, but maybe too much for now.

```html
v-bind:class="{ 'blue-border': submission.votes >= 20 }"
```

With a slightly more different syntax, there is the ``v-for``. [Per the official documentation](https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/list.html#maintaining-state), "*It is recommended to provide a key attribute with v-for whenever possible*" - but the motivation seems a little too much for me to care right now.

```html
<article v-for="submission in submissions" class="media">
	<!-- Rest of the submission template -->
</article>
```

The book then introduces **Computed Properties**. It comes when some code gets introduced - one that would sort an array. The official documentation states that ["*for any complex logic, you should use a computed property*"](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/computed.html). Even though, again, I'm not necessarily using an explicit *application Instance* as one would on a normal Vue application, I make use of this when implementing blog posts; thus, it can be part of any component (later, it is clarified that "*Vue components are Vue instances. The majority of properties (except for a few root-specific options) that exist in a root application instance (data, methods, etc.) can exist in a component as well.*").

## Event Handling - reacting to clicks, etc. 📬

The next implementation step looks upon the ``v-on`` directive, "*used to create event listeners within the DOM*". As an example, there's the following situation

```html
<span class="icon is-small" v-on:click="upvote(submission.id)">
	...
</span>
```

where the action is `click`. The method is defined under the *application instance*. 

## Props - passing data to child components 🐣

Vue's modular component design allows for one component to be a child to another - even if the parent is the root *application instance*. With **props**, data can be flowed from parent to child, in a one-way only trip. In this case, a component is passing down `submission` and `sortedSubmissions` as props under the variables `submission` and `submissions.

```html
<submission-component
	v-bind:submission="submission"
	v-bind:submissions="sortedSubmissions"> 
</submission-component>
```

These must in turn be declared on the child component, under its `props` option. The code below still presents a not-so-intuitive version of a component.

```html
const submissionComponent = { template: `
// ... `,
props: ["submission", "submissions"], };
```
