---
title: Day 10 - More Vue! 👓
date: 2021-11-13
description: On a hectic saturday, there was still time to tackle state...
tags: vue 
---

# {{ $page.title }}

As you might know, I'm following a book on Vue as a tutorial. Today, I'll be tackling the chapter about *state*, which is introduced in the context of a single-file component. 

# The store... 🏬 

Given a scenario where an app might have many components, these can interact among themselves as parent-child, child-parent or sibling-sibling; many situations can arise. The book starts by introducing **Simple State Management**, which consists of having a centralised *store*, that distributes information to every single component. Interactions with the *store* are mediated by *actions*.

The *store* could be defined as a Javascript object, and then later imported into each component via their `<script>` section.

```js
export const store = {
  state: {
    numbers: [1, 2, 3]
  },
  pushNewNumber(newNumberString) {
    this.state.numbers.push(Number(newNumberString));
  } 
}
```

The *store* should have methods defined for changing of the state. However, since this *store* is not itself a proper Vue component, reactivity (the capacity of the page to render the new content immediately after a change in the *store*) is disabled. To enable it, one must import the ``reactive()`` function from Vue.

```js
import { reactive } from 'vue';
import { seedData } from './seed.js';

export const store = {
  state: {
    data: reactive(seedData)
  },
}
```

# ...and the `v-model` directive ↔️

There is also some information about the ``v-model`` directive. This allows for bidirectional data changes, and is usually used on user inputs. If the user inputs some information, then the bind data variable is changed too; and it happens the other way around as well. 

# ...and this is all very interesting, but... 

...the next chapter is still about **state changes** - in particular, whether to use Vuex or not. According to the official documentation (isn't it *endearing* how much I use this particular term? 😋), Vuex is used when applications get between medium and large scale. That will certainly not be my case for a while.

Tomorrow, I'm jumping directly to the **routing** section, which is much more useful in the context of some other project to which I must attend.
