---
title: Day 11 - Routing pages in Vue 🏹
date: 2021-11-15
description: I need to learn routing to progress further...
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Oh - today is Monday! 🥳

To further progress with my Vue skills, it was needed to get some knowledge on **routing** - it is responsible for changing a web application's look and content every time a user clicks on any link on the page. Usually, webpages refresh ocne a link is clicked; but with **single-page applications** that doesn't happen: everything is (usually) loaded all at once and then the router changes the page as needed.

I'm currently working on a school project that requires some Vue, and had decided that today I'd do further progress in the design of the pages as well as learn the routing technique.

# Web design *is hard* 😩

HTML and CSS are very simple tools. Sicne the outcome is mostly visual, they're relatively easy to debug, and the feedback is very immediate. Of course, just plain HTML doesn't quite cut it anymore - a solid understanding of CSS is also required. My past experience had me code HTML and CSS by hand, with no support of any other frameworks; and while that was certainly very useful to learn the basics, any serious web development experience is greatly enhanced by the use of frameworks like Bootstrap, or Tailwind.

This all to say that I still consider myself a novice in HTML/CSS - but very eager to improve my chops too.

# Routing! 📮

Alright - on to routing.

The first step is installing the router. That can be done with the `vue-cli`, running `vue add router`, which installs the router and creates some new directories on the file tree: `router` and `views`. 

Up to now, all the components were stored in the same folder, but with the introduction of the router, many can be moved into the `views` folder, for rendering. On the `router` directory, one will find a `index.js` file, which contains an array of paths, with the following sample structure:

```js
const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    name: 'Home',
    component: Home
  },
]
```

The aforementioned components must also be imported to the file: `import Home from '../views/Home.vue';`

As soon as this is configured, one can define routing in some other components. In my particular case, there is a NavBar component that will handle most of the website navigation. Its code is quite confusing - that's what you get by using precoded CSS elements - but my friend (a JS/Vue wizard) got it working with this piece of code:

```js
  <router-link v-for="n in navigation" :key="n" :to="{name: n.name}">
	 {{n.name}}
  </router-link>
```

where `navigation` is defined as follows:

```js
const navigation = [
  { name: 'Dashboard' },
  { name: 'Users' },
]
```

The NavBar is now slight misformatted, but I think that is due to `router-link` element being currently Tailwind unstiled.
