---
title: Day 13 - Some notes about yesterday, and further front-end work 🍑
date: 2021-11-17
description: It was actually very exciting!
---

# {{ $page.title }}

It sort of passed me by to update yesterday's blog post, but many, many things happened. For one, Winter days should definitely be handled with a little more care. I stayed at school way past sundown, and having so much white light aroudn definitely threw me a little off - and these are the small things that can really wreck a good routine. 

On the other hand, yesterday was very exciting: I did some Javascript on my personal website, *for the first time*! 🥳 It feels like reaping some benefits of having more exposure to Vue and JS. 

# My first bzzzzzzz Javascript, whilst searching for a dark-mode 🌄

In hindsight, of course it is not that big of a deal, but I learned about some exciting new concepts. This all started because I wanted to experiment with some dark-mode techniques - thus, I came across this piece of code:

```js
document.body.style.backgroundColor = "red";
```

If you run this on your browser's console, this page will change its background to red. Cool, huh? Here I realised how pretty much every CSS parameter that currently defines the website styling could be changed with this sort of commands. 

But supposing one could style a very cool dark-mode, how to prompt the user on toggling it manually is a whole other issue (and there should be, of course, a way to check [for browser definitions](https://www.alexmakes.codes/blog/103121.html#the-website-now-partially-supports-dark-mode)) - and a much more important matter is *how to make the browser remember the choice*.

I follow a very basic rule of thumb: *to avoid messing with more complicated technologies than what the situation requires at a minimum*. While this could be probably be solved using 🍪 *cookies*, I'd rather avoid those shenanigans for now - plus, since these are used for so many reasons other than saving preferences, a very bad reputation has gone along with them. Luckily, yesterday I learned about **HTML Web Storage**, which [seems to be fully supported in every imaginable browser](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage).

**HTML Web Storage** rivals *cookies* in many ways - they can hold more information (5mb vs 4kb), and are never transferred to the server. There is either **local storage** or **session storage**: the latter pertains only to a session (it is deleted afterwarrds), while the first remains across sessions. [According to Mozilla's great documentation on the matter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Storage_API/Using_the_Web_Storage_API),

::: tip Storage Objects Definition
Storage objects are simple **key-value stores**, similar to objects, but they stay intact through page loads. **The keys and the values are always strings** (note that, as with objects, integer keys will be automatically converted to strings). You can access these values like an object, or with the Storage.getItem() and Storage.setItem() methods.
:::

With this in mind, I imagined a simple dark-mode toggle that would first check whether the storage is available, and, if so, apply dark-mode.

```js
function localStorageSupported() {
 try {
  return "localStorage" in window && window["localStorage"] !== null;
 } catch (e) {
  return false;
 }
}

// on page-load
if (localStorage.getItem("dark-mode"))
    document.body.style.backgroundColor = "gray";

// on button activation
if (localStorageSupported())
    localStorage.setItem("dark-mode", true);
else
    {}
```

This is, of course, still a very naive attempt - but I was very excited about embedding it in the code! After including this whole script on the webpage (under a `<script>` tag, of course), I created a simple button:

```html
<button onclick="darkModeEnabler()">dark mode</button>
```




