---
title: Day 16 - The blog got more features! 🎉
date: 2021-11-20
description: Now there are dates on the blog posts!
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Oh, what a Saturday. I spent most of the programming time closed in less than a square meter - it is my preferred environment for tutoring while at 42. I managed to help a student with some polynomial interpolation using Python and Scipy (it sounds so impressive!), but the most exciting code would come later... 

# ...the blog now features the post date! 📅

Ever since the start of this blog, every post is accompanied by its post date - but this information wasn't public. After some time getting acquainted with Vue, I noticed this would be very simple to implement. 

Every post has its date in the `frontmatter` - this is just a very simple formatting template that occurs in every post file.

```js
title:
date:
description:
```

The date is rendered in a rather clumsy (or over-detailed) format: `2021-11-19T00:00:00.000Z`, for example - it required some pre-processing before being able to meaningfully render it. Since the blog page is actually rendered by a component, I introduced a `processedDate` method that massages this format into a more convenient one. Assuming the date is stored in `postDate`,

```js
newDate = postDate.split('T')[0].split('-').reverse().join('/')
```

Having the proper date to display, it was really just a matter of handling the CSS properly to render it nicely. In fact, this was a good experiment and a nice exercise in CSS - it is noticeable how much more comfortable I am with CSS, and just playing around with it.

I'll share a little anecdote with all my readers: a dear friend of mine (simultaneously, one of the best programmers I know) once pointed out how the webspace features probably the most democratic programming paradigm of all: almost every webpage has its HTML and CSS stylings public, which means one really is able to learn by inspecting and mimicking; hardly anyone goes the length to hide the code behind some sort of obfuscation. 

That thought stuck with me ever since, and my appreciation for it gets larger every single day I entertain my musings with web development. 
