---
title: Day 17 - A quiet Sunday... 🛏
date: 2021-11-21
description: I jest - Sunday's can be code days too.
---

# {{ $page.title }}

It seems quite obvious now that there is no problem with having a day off per week - Sunday is a great day to do chores, get lazy around Formula 1 and UFC, and do nothing in general. [A day off can be quite refreshing, and life affirming](https://eriktorenberg.substack.com/p/on-solitude). Managing a given week to ensure days off is demanding, specially when not working a regular 8-5 job; it is a little harder when juggling tutoring on the side, as many people really do need the weekends to get their studies done. 

I'm not complaining, though - I love my schedule as it is. It could be positive, however, to enforce a *reassessing* day of some sort - to define the priorities for the upcoming week. Accountability and work discipline are two very rough edges on my productive life that certainly need some rounding. 

# Some progress with the torrent-fetching shell script 🏹

The day was quite busy, because of some tutoring - but I still managed to cram in an hour of coding. The current status of this [shell script](https://www.alexmakes.codes/blog/111821.html) is not too promissing: the script is able to fetch the directory/file to be downloaded, and relay it back to my main machine.

Examples are fitting: suppose the download of this very interesting record: `Supertramp - Breakfast In America (1979) {mp3 v0} [MFSL 1-045]`. On my main machine, the `scp` command will provide, after some painstaking autocomplete and command line input navigation, the following:

```
Supertramp\\\ -\\\ Breakfast\\\ In\\\ America\\\ \\\(1979\\\)\\\ \\\{mp3\\\ v0\\\}\\\ \\\[MFSL\\\ 1-045\\\]/
```

Thus, I was trying to implement the sending of such a path, properly escaping special characters. At first I was fixated on doing this with shell tools *alone*, but didn't get far; but with some Python leeway, I got a script that can escape any directory with ease.

However, this happens when sending the path, concatenated with the `scp` command:

```
scp: /<path_on_raspberry>/Supertramp\ -\ Breakfast\ In\ America\ \(1979\)\ \{mp3\ v0\}\ \[MFSL1-045\]\ : No such file or directory
```

There is probably some very obvious reason for this behaviour, that is completely *whoosh*ing past me.

# Detouring the initial plan 🗺

It's been a while since I have been stuck with this particular problem, and *I want to get things done*. Instead of endlessly trying different approaches to the script, I found my time to be better spent on an alternative process: what if the path information never left the Raspberry, thus doing away with the need of exchanging paths (and escaping the characters) back and forth? There are probably much better protocols for this sort of thing.

This sort of *deconstruction* of the plan led me to think: why not reevaluate the file fetching *entirely*, by repurposing the role of the Raspberry in this situation? What am I trying to achieve, really? 🤔 Most of these `scp` commands are regularly fetching audio files for local listening; the process starts when some `.torrent` files are downloaded on my main machine, and are then sent to the Raspberry through a shell script that deploys `rsync` to send the torrent files across.

Then it hit me: `rsync` is probably the best solution for my problem!


