---
title: Day 19 - The world is your oyster! 🦪
date: 2021-11-25
description: So many possibilities! 🌎
tags: musings, javascript, css, docker
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Yesterday was fun - the tags were implemented quite fast, and my later in the day was spent on a meeting with interesting people, about some interesting projects. It's all very exciting. But every once in a while Lisbon gives way to Braga - the large city is then a smaller, cozier city, with a different rhythm, with different motivations. This all to say I will be having a performance next week, which is still very much away from being written and rehearsed, and maybe the blogging won't be happening as often. 

On a side-note: Portugal has two kinds of trains that span city-to-city distance: the most sophisticated one is Alfa Pendular; the other one is Inter-Cidades. The price fluctuation between the two is not too step if the tickets are bought with a couple of weeks in advance; but if you ever plan on working during the trip (a very enticing endeavour for a 3/4 hour trip!), then the Alfa is a much, much better choice (better seat tables, and more electric plugs available). Just a heads-up in case the reader ever plans on doing a trip!

# Some Javascript!

Since the train is not really the best place for deep-focused work, I tackled a couple of [Javascript exercises on Exercism](https://exercism.org/tracks/javascript/). While I am more and more confident with its syntax for simple methods and functions, there are still some concepts I need to tackle: promises, array functions, rest and spread, just to name a few. And as this is probably the first time I mention the **Exercism platform**: it's great! A free, easy to use platform with a built-in editor and tests for all exercises - and it is all open-source, meaning one can implement their own tests or exercises for all of the community to enjoy. 

### Some good resources:

- [A good show of many CSS paradigms](https://every-layout.dev/);
- [What looks like a good Docker (and AWS?) tutorial 🐳](https://docker-curriculum.com/);
- [Emojis on Git Commits](https://gitmoji.dev/)

