---
title: Day 21 - The comments template, and more.
date: 2021-11-28
description: Designing a (very simple) comment section.
tags: css
---

# {{ $page.title }}

## Look, everyone! A comment section! 🤯

Yesterday's work was all about setting up a back-end model for the comments, but that won't get us anywhere without a front-end template that allows for comment submissions. So today I spent some time fiddling with HTML and CSS, to get to a usable template for the comments. It's very simple, but it looks somewhat nice, huh? Check it below. **It looks usable, but it is not, okay?**

<CommentsStub/>

This seems (technically) good enough for now, but the next steps are a little trickier. As soon as any user presses submit, there must be a POST request to the Django server, and the process is still a little elusive for me.

### Please listen up, CSS masters! 😗

Sometimes I feel CSS really does enjoy acting up — either that, or there is something about the language, or the browser behaviour, that I am not quite aware of yet. It has happened before to have CSS stylings persist even after refreshing a page. The solution was then to clear the cache, or move onto another browser. Private sessions seemed to work too.

I'm having issues with making the `textarea` have the proper font; for some reason it keeps rendering serif. And here's another one: switching the order of the last two stylings — the `@media` and `form > div > textarea` breaks the Vue element.

```js
	.formElement {
		display: flex;
		flex-direction: column;
		margin-bottom: 10px;
	}

	.formElement > label {
		margin-bottom: 4px;
	}

	@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
		textarea, input {
			background-color: #3695634f;
			border-style: solid;
			border-radius: 2px;
			color: white;
			font-family: Graphik-Regular-Web, sans-serif;
		} ::placeholder {
			color: white;
		}
	},

	form > div > textarea {
		font-family: Graphik-Regular-Web, sans-serif;
		padding-inline-start: 4px;
		border-style: solid;
		border-radius: 2px;
	}
```

I could try and fix it tomorrow. Let's see!
