---
title: Day 23 - A try at HTTP requests with Axios! 🌏
date: 2021-12-04
description: The comment section is coming to life! 
tags: Vue, axios, css
---

# {{ $page.title }}

## First steps in getting Axios running 📮

As the HTML form is already completed, it is now high time to move onto working with the Axios platform for HTTP requests. After installing Axios with `npm install axios`, I added it to the `./vuepress/config.js` file, under `plugins`.

Taking the Comments component `.vue` file, we can now use the `<script>` heading to include some Javascript. First, `axios` must be imported. Then, [taking some inspiration from people who did this before](https://codesandbox.io/s/vue-axios-http-get-request-examples-ei7l8?file=/app/GetRequest.vue), I confirmed axios is already up and running on the component — just display the ``this.totalVuePackages`` package, which is properly updated.

At this point, [a particular webpage](https://5balloons.info/post-form-data-to-api-using-axios-in-vuejs/) really shone a light on my path. By defining a `form` variable, which is itself an object with three strings that correspond to each form field, one can then map to each field using the `v-model` directive. I'm not sure whether this is the easiest, or best-practice, but it seems natural enough and it uses Vue's tools. To conclude, make the submit button call a custom Javascript method that will launch the request with the `form` variable as content.

<CommentsStub2/>

There are some things left to implement. What happens if the name is still empty? The request should obviously fail, but the name parameter must be highlighted for completion.

## Some changes to the bzzzzzzz website 🛰

I have a very deep love for this particular website. It was my first *real programming project* — something built from the ground up, with a very particular use case in mind. Thus, I have a lot of difficulty parting with it, even if that would be justifiable from me being *a much better programmer* this time around. There is the possibility of running it down and creating another one for this purpose, but I just like it too much.

It comes from a time where I did not know much CSS, and it shows: the website is barely usable on mobile, and that is probably the first real rework I'll do to its interface. Starting from the landing page to the other more particular views, I'm getting rid of hardcoded pixel-widths and stuff of the like.
