---
title: Day 27 - Some lessons in JS refactoring 📦
date: 2021-12-10
description: Sequoya gave me some nifty tricks!
tags: javascript, axios
---

# {{ $page.title }}

Yesterday there was, again, much progress with the comments endeavour. The back-end has its CORS problem fixed and is probably very soon ready for deployment. Sequoya did, however, push for some refactoring.

## A new structure for Axios calls 🌈

Vuepress is a very high-level, batteries-more-than-included framework that really serves its purpose in being a go-to for documentation pages and what-not. I somewhat feel comfortable enough to let it go and pick another framework, or even go vanilla Vue, for my future front-end and blogging practices. But on the other hand, it's actually quite fun to battle its (not really noticeable) shortcomings. 

Sequoya is a Vue/JS wizard and pushed some refactoring on my code. The Axios calls, instead of being defined in the Comments component, are now deployed on a different Javascript file, laid on `.vuepress/utils/commentsAxios.js`. Everything is setup in this file (including the interceptors), whose contents are then imported on the components.

Now there are some tricks up my sleeve: I'm aware of the `process.env` variable, which is loaded by default *due to Node *(?) and includes the environment variables: this is useful for the following constant:

```js
const BASE_URL = process.env.NODE_ENV == 'production' ? 'realwebsite.com' : 'http://localhost:8000';
```

[Vuepress doesn't support `process.env`, though](https://forum.vuejs.org/t/how-to-use-env-variable-in-vuepress/61451); thus, I would have to resort to the `dotenv` package, that I'm familiar with due to my Python shenanigans. But after having spent more than an hour getting it to work with Webpack, I must give up: there are still some technologies I cannot handle and, for now, all the url's will be hardcoded.

The `axios` instance can be initialised with some more parameters: `baseURL`, `timeout`, and `headers`. For now, I'll only make use of the `baseURL` variable, which will bepointing to the back-end url.

```js
const ax = axios.create({
    baseURL: BASE_URL,
    // some more nice things.
})
```

finally, to make it all exportable, the file ends with `module.exports`.

<CommentsStub6 :title="$frontmatter.title"/>
