---
title: Day 29 - Onboarding a Python application, and Tmux! 🐍
date: 2021-12-15
description: Diving deep into someone else's code!
tags: python, tdd, tmux
---

# {{ $page.title }}

As I get deeper and more involved into other people's code, and more so if it entails a collaboration or intervention of some sort, my onboarding skills broaden. Being able to get quickly acquainted with new code really does feel like a very valuable skill.

Coincidentally, as I do Python stuff (which, at this point, is really the only language with which I feel comfortable enough to do these things), it just so happens that all these projects either have deficient tests or no testing implemented at all; moreover, building the testing framework feels like a very natural way to both get more knowledgeble on the project and/or framework, and also provide some immediate value to the project. 

This is most likely a repeated suggestion, but [Obey the Testing Goat](https://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/) is a great resource for both TDD and Django; in fact, by following the book it sort of helped me [feed two birds with one scone](https://www.peta.org/teachkind/lesson-plans-activities/animal-friendly-idioms/).

## Getting the structure right 🌴

Getting the project structure right is *iffy*, and [there are many ways to do it](https://blog.ionelmc.ro/2014/05/25/python-packaging/#the-structure). This has something to do with how Python handles its `import` calls, and sometimes I feel like it takes a PhD to understand all that it entails. For now, the `tests.py` file is at the root of the project directory - this is probably the simplest way to handle the importing.

```
.
├── README.md
├── build_doc.sh
├── docs/
├── myProject/
├── pyenv/
├── requirements.txt
├── setup.py
└── tests.py
```

As such, the first two lines of my `tests.py` are

```python
import myProject
import unittest
```

and it works like a breeze!

## Django deployment on the Raspberry, and some Tmux! ⌨️

Considering I am only missing the deployment of the Django app, I thought it could be fun (and very educational!) to deploy it aside with the website on my Raspberry. To be honest, my Linux chops are degrading due to lack of practice, and there are some fundamentals I really need to set down; plus, I should grasp Nginx configurations better, and so on. Since it is very cumbersome to have many SSH tabs open, this is also the perfect opportunity to finally get my Tmux skills going too.

After having Tmux installed, simply use the `tmux` command to launch it. The default keybinding for Tmux commands is `ctrl + b`, which is a little awkward, even with the Caps Lock key bound to the Control key (a very sane change that I would recommend to anybody!). I find `ctrl + q` to be a little better, so let's fix that! There's a great [cheat sheet](https://tmuxcheatsheet.com/), and I also found [Ham Vocke's](https://www.hamvocke.com/blog/a-guide-to-customizing-your-tmux-conf/) guide to have some pretty neat suggestions, so I'm following most of that. 

::: tip Tmux commands
`ctrl + a` as the prefix `P` <br>
`tmux new -s session_name` to create named sessions <br>
`P [number]` switches to the `number` corresponding window <br>
`P c` creates a new window<br>
`P h` splits window horizontally <br>
`P v` splits window vertically <br>
`P x` closes the current pane <br>
`P ,` renames a window <br>
`P ;` select previous pane<br>
`P o` cycles through all panes<br>
`tmux ls` lists all the current sessions <br>
`tmux a` attaches to the last session <br>
`tmux source-file ~/.tmux.conf` reloads the config file <br>
:::

## Now, to the deployment! 👾

After cloning the Django repository to the raspberry, I'd love to confirm its communication with nginx, even if through a momentarily very unsecure instance of the back-end. However, my Raspberry is already running a `gunicorn` instance that serves my Flask application (which is the bzzzzzzz.buzz website). I'm not sure about having two instances of `gunicorn` running, but [this link](https://github.com/benoitc/gunicorn/blob/master/examples/multiapp.py) seems to offer an interesting possibility. On the other hand, it is probably just best practice to get acquainted with Docker and properly insulate these different services from each other.
