---
title: Day 32 - Setting Nginx up...as a container 🐳
date: 2021-12-21
description: I really wish I knew what I am doing! 🥂
tags: docker
---

# {{ $page.title }}

It has been oddly quiet these last few days. Not that I haven't done any programming: that would be very, very untrue. But it has mostly been tutoring, and some other endeavours I'd rather keep private. But nothing is lost! I'm back, today, to get some further progress in the containerisation of the services, and am ready to tackle on **nginx**.

## First steps! 🐾

So, as a quick recap: nginx will be reverse-proxying most of my services, mostly for security and good practices — plus, I'll get to learn how it works, really, which is always nice. 

But...err...you don't know what reverse-proxying is? Alright, let's clear that up: luckily, [I found a great resource](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/docker-nginx-letsencrypt-easy-secure-reverse-proxy-40165ba3aee2/) during part of my searches, and it does a great job at explaining the concept.

Regarding a **normal proxy**, it *"means that information is going through a third party, before getting to the location. Say that you don’t want a service to know your IP, you can use a proxy. A proxy is a server that has been set up specifically for this purpose. If the proxy server you are using is located in, for example, Amsterdam, the IP that will be shown to the outside world is the IP from the server in Amsterdam. The only ones who will know your IP are the ones in control of the proxy server"*.

As for a **reverse-proxy**, *"instead of masking outgoing connections (you accessing a webserver), it’s the incoming connections (people accessing your webserver) that will be masked. You simply provide a URL like example.com, and whenever people access that URL, your reverse proxy will take care of where that request goes"*. And it continues: *"perhaps the biggest advantage of having a reverse proxy, is that you can have services running on a multitude of ports, but you only have to open ports 80 and 443, HTTP and HTTPS respectively. All requests will be coming into your network on those two ports, and the reverse proxy will take care of the rest. All of this will make sense once we start setting the proxy up"*.

So this latter part is quite interesting. Instead of having various ports exposed to the world, everything goes though the standard 80 and 443, with nginx forwarding each request appropriately. It seems cool! For this particular exercise, I'll prioritise getting the Django back-end working, being fronted by nginx.

## More information on the `docker-compose` file 💡

Some changes were made to the `docker-compose` file:

```yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  front-end:
    build: front-end
    expose:
      - 8080
    volumes:
      - ./front-end:/amc
  back-end:
    build: back-end
    expose:
      - 8000
    volumes:
      - ./back-end:/app
  nginx:
    hostname: nginx
    image: nginx
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
  	volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
```
I changed some stuff in here. Instead of using a `ports` directive, I'm just doing `expose`. From what I understood, which might be completely wrong because I took this from the documentation and probably didn't understand it very well, it means that these ports are only exposed to the Docker virtual network — ie., accessible to the nginx container, but not to the whole world, so to say. The nginx container, on the other hand, is listening on both 80 and 443 (SSL), thus making it so that every connection must be routed through these standard ports. 

I'm mapping a local `./nginx.conf` file to the container's `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`:

```nginx
events {
    worker_connections 1024;
}

http {
  server {
	listen 80;
	server_name localhost 127.0.0.1;

    location / {
      proxy_pass http://front-end:8080;
    }

    location /api/ {
      proxy_pass http://back-end:8000/;
    }
  }
}
```

Now, let me tell you: it really was a struggle to get this thing working. There are so many weird things taking place in here!

Nginx is listening to the port 80 — and that port alone. Every request made to localhost, or 127.0.0.1, is getting proxied to the `front-end` *unless* it is directed towards `localhost/api/<...>`. Notice how there is a `/` after the `proxy_pass` at the `back-end`: this is to make whatever url is passed onto the back-end not to be preceded by `/api/`. (the back-end receives a request for the `/get_comments?day=26` endpoint instead of `/api/get_comments?day=26`). 

Again: this took a very long while to get it working, and this is just a very simple solution. 
