---
title: Day 34 - The Christmas that keeps on giving! 🎅 
date: 2021-12-25
description: It's either due the season, or Covid! 🥳
tags: musings, icecast
---

# {{ $page.title }}

After another very boring, monotonous, lonely day, I proposed myself a good night of sleep, albeit one a couple of hours earlier than the very much delayed bedtime as of late. The onset of sleep was very quick, and soon I dreamt; but I know for a fact that if the slumber is left in the first twenty minutes, there is no chance in getting back to sleep in the next couple of hours. That's pretty much what happened, after a dream where I chewed some raw quinoa startled me awake. Alas, I figured it was time for some programming.

The whole Icecast thing has been nagging me for a while: I'm eager to get back into live radio, and with the website looking a [little more fresh](https://bzzzzzzz.buzz) (except, still, for one or two routes which are still not mobile-friendly), I thought it was high time to get it over with. I know I've done this before: I got it locally on both my main machine and the Raspberry. But it has been a while, and I wanted to go a little further.

Icecast has got some decent official documentation. The binary builds really smoothly on the latest Mac OS Monterrey (I couldn't care for any feature of this OS upgrade as much as I care for new emojis — how could I live without 🫂, or 😮‍💨?); unfortunately, I don't think it ships with a `icecast.xml` file, but that is easy to find on GitHub. 

The only really important bit was the `source-password`, which must be matched by whatever tries to mount itself onto Icecast; in my case, it was both Audio Hijack (such great piece of software! Mac exclusive, though) and the `music player daemon`, or `mpd` for short. I also had some other trouble connecting, but I think that was due to a mismatch between `localhost` and `127.0.0.1` — I'm not even sure that was even a real issue, but I'm leaving it here anyway for future reference.

I set two instances of Icecast very quickly, one on each machine. The Raspberry's is still a little iffy, but it works a charm on my main: managed to stream from both clients, and everything went well. After opening up the necessary ports on my network router, my friends were able to connect easily. It was very smooth!

The next step is to have a flag on the website to signal whether there is any live stream or now; and I shall be back into live broadcasting very soon — this is really exciting! 📡
