---
title: Day 35 - [further progress]
date: 2021-12-28
description: 
tags: musings, css, bzzzzzzz
---

# {{ $page.title }}

The last days have been somewhat tough 🤒 

To be locked down under quarantine is *weird* — it is very, very tough. There's, of course, the very physical aspect of being constrained in space, under very specific boundaries —  I haven't left the house for almost ten days, and I didn't see the sheer drop in motivation coming. But the social isolation is just as, if not more, unbearable. And you get the added sense of being *contagious*, a hazard to others. It's very weird and uncomfortable. The last two days were particularly difficult; there was absolutely no motivation to *do anything*, and no prospect of will to *work*, to *be productive* — the weeks and months ahead presented themselves just as meaningless, and it dawned on me how fragile my life plans are. 

This is not to make a case for *being happy at work*, because it felt worse than that: having *no chance to be happy*, with whatever. I feel work can be a manifestation of happiness, or peace of mind, and this has very truly eluded me for some days. Luckily, it got better; hopefully this is was just a phase, because that sort of hopelessness really can drive someone nuts.

## Softening bzzzzzzz's edges 🔪

Well, considering a general lack of motivation to *handle proper problems*, I turned to the blog's styling and managed to solve many of its issues. You will all rejoice in knowing it is now *fully* responsive! Yay! 🥳 I felt that was a very important milestone, and something I should have tackled long, long ago — in my defense, doing *good* CSS from the get-go is hard. So there's that.

With time, I think I'll happily migrate the website into a more robust framework — I'm thinking Django + Vue. The code is as big a mess as you can suspect, coming from someone who literally *learned as it went*. I'm actually surprised it works so well given the circumstances, but the data input (there's not really a database...) is not the best; that is probably the priority after the next task. And what is the next task...? (aside from **fixing the comments API, man, which is long overdue**.

## Implementing dark-mode! 🌃

So, this is the task at hand. [I remember doing a very naive try some months back](https://www.alexmakes.codes/blog/111721.html), and it was quite successful; but it has to be extended to the whole website, and ideally without much work. This will all be done *manually*, in a way; on the other hand, it's a great chance to have another look at the CSS, and hopefully refactor it further.

The previous blog post expands on how to properly keep track of a manual trigger for the dark mode; the first issue is then how to juggle both the manual trigger and the `prefer-color-scheme` directive. It turns out one cannot override the `prefer-color-scheme` value — this would come in handy if the manual trigger could interact with that variable; but the other way around is certainly possible: have a variable (say, `dark-mode`) that will be `true` whenever `prefer-color-scheme: dark` or the manual trigger is activated. This will then be stored in the local storage, and every time a page is loaded it gets checked.
